### [Zoning Board of Appeals]() [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dSU3yMM-1tc) [agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1901&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda)

<details><summary>Remote Participation</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 172</summary>

> So, this open meeting of the Arlington zoning board of appeals is being conducted remotely consistent with the supplemental appropriations act signed into law on March 29 2023, which extended until March 31st 2025 the suspension of the requirement to hold all meetings in a publicly accessible physical location. Public bodies may continue holding meetings remotely without a quorum of the public body physically present at a meeting. So long as they provide adequate alternative access to the remote meeting. So this meeting the Arlington zoning board of appeals has convened a video conference by the zoom application with online and telephone access as listed on the agenda pointed to are posted to this town's website, identifying how the public may join. This meeting is being recorded and it will be broadcast by a CMI all supporting materials that have been provided to members of this body are available on this meetings agenda or on the town's website, unless otherwise noted, the public is encouraged to follow along using the posted agenda.
</details></details>
<details><summary>3747 10 Sunnyside Avenue</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 447</summary>

> There's only one matter on our agenda tonight the second deliberation session on the request for a comprehensive permit for 10 Sunnyside Avenue. The record on this application was closed on August 15 2023. And as a matter of law, we are not permitted to accept new information at this point. Therefore, we will not be taking comments from the public, the applicant or anyone else, although we will of course consult with our legal advisor, Mr. Having gone through those preliminaries. You all have before you the draft that was circulated earlier today with which reflects the changes that the body that this body. Agreed to last week on September 5, and, and with some additional amendments and there's some agenda that is left for us to cover. So last week we covered the findings, we covered waivers, and we covered all of the conditions until we got to, until we got to part, I guess, part E. So I'd like to start there tonight and pick up with where we left off on party, even though there are some other amendments and changes that will with on the matters that we already dealt with, but it will go through eat the end. And then we'll turn back to looking at the facts and some earlier conditions that have some changes in them and and the waivers, which generally are just a few odds and ends. And then I hope that we'll be ready to begin the process of winding up this here, winding up this proceeding, which began with a hearing back on May 2nd. So we've been at this for a while, although by 40 B standards, that's, I guess, not that long. That being, if there's no objection to that procedure, I'd like to draw our attention or turn our attention to party project design and construction. I need to ask Colleen to make me a cohost again. When I crashed out, I lost my privileges. All set. Okay, so we'll follow the principle, the procedure we did last time as we go through all of these things and make decisions on individual potential amendments. Mr. Klein will will put those into the will make those changes there so that at the end of the proceeding of our discussion tonight before we look at the at the proposed permit as a whole, we'll have a complete draft that doesn't need to have anything else. We'll have a complete draft that doesn't need to have anything else in it into it. Mr. Have it. He did you want to Your, your box just turned. You had a yellow border. So I thought Background noise.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Changes</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 234</summary>

> Okay. All right, so we're at he and the first place that we haven't indicated a change was at the bottom of the one, but I've never been able to figure out what that proposed change was Extra carriage return. I see. Okay. Well, I assume that will accept that one. And I'm worried that if I fix it, it'll change all the numberings. I'm going to wait. That's yes, that would be that is a danger. The next one is has to do with is And has been here as a in here for some time. It addresses the Procedure for pre construction conference with members of the public. And with others as well. And is sort of similar to the what we did in 1165 are 1165 are this also make sure that I'm correct about this, but this also includes the provision that was suggested by the applicant about maintaining a open website that would Keep people informed of the nature of the activities that are taking place in real time. And that this would be open as the last sentence says access will be prominently posted at the construction site during the construction period. So people who are interested can log on and and and get the information that that they want. So I wonder if there's any. Does anyone have any comment when we're the other on this one.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 141</summary>

> Mr. Chairman, Mr. So, as I am looking at that I just sort of flagged the middle of the paragraph where it says, additionally, the applicant shall prepare A list of additional parties interested in notice and shall provide notice to such parties. I wasn't exactly ensure exactly sure what that entails. Because the provisions of 48 section 11 are really clear. So they say, you know, who gets notice how and all of that. But this additional parties interested. I didn't know how to define that. So I think if we're it's prescriptive and if you're trying to They have to do this. I'm not sure how they identify those additional parties interested and how notice would be given. So perhaps, perhaps that's already figured out. And I just had missed it. But that's the question I have on that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 257</summary>

> So the applicant. Whoops. The applicant. Hold on. We seem to have lost Mr. Holy here. So this was intended. Okay, great. The The applicant, the applicant's lawyer had indicated that basically they were Including a that basically the focus is basically going towards When that was drafted. I was thinking a lot about the applicant statement that the website would be open to anyone who wish to who wish to Have it that basically it would be just quite free to anyone to sign up. So that included the question originally was, did that include everybody on Michael Street. And the answer is yes. And it includes the whole world if they want And so the point there was simply to address that. I guess. I'm not wholly clear that I mean that it's positive. It's negative. It's positive. And so it looks, it's, it's in an odd spot. For that. And I agree that it would be very difficult. To To To To To To It would be. That's a little bit different. I guess the question I have here is what happens if it turns out that That people who are other than parties and interest. Express the In other words, they don't have to reach out and identify people to offer to notify. But if people call if people say we want to be notified of this. Whether we're in a party of interest or not, that they are also entitled to get the notice of the meeting. That's what I was thinking.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 11</summary>

> So that it's the sort of the onus is on people.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 84</summary>

> Yeah, I agree that if people If people say we want to be notified of this. And if people say, we want to be notified of this. Whether we're in a party of interest or not that they are also entitled to get the notice of the meeting. That's what I was thinking so that it's the I guess, because to be notified is that If that would be an improvement, I think. Sir, any other comment on this one. Is it generally acceptable.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 4</summary>

> Looks fine to me.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 114</summary>

> Okay. Why don't we move on then to the, to the next one. Here, the next one is a six. On e five is essentially the same. Addition. Provide advance notice to butters and other residents expressing interest for the town. Correct. And that's more or less resolved in the same way. Now, he six has got a question from Mr. Haverty, which is a very short question, which I'm not sure has a short answer. And I wanted to raise this with you. The. I don't think that it is true that appropriate signage. That the approved plans actually have anything on signage. And I wonder, Mr. Klein, if you can address that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 55</summary>

> I'm a little bit concerned with, with both the pair with the paragraph. And ultimately, if we don't have a paragraph like that, there's a permit requirement for some signage provisions in our bylaw, which is raises a complication. So how would, how do you think that we should be dealing with the signage issue?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon and Christian Klein - 238</summary>

> No, I'm going back to the. Let's take a quick look at the documents that were submitted by the applicant. And see if. Any of the renderings included. Signage and they did not. Signage and they did not. So, then we have a couple of. Options in that regard. So, thinking back to other projects, there were some comments that we had to include about site signage. At Thorndike place because they had substantial site signage for traffic and stuff like that. That's not really the case here. I don't recall us doing very much in terms of 1165 bar or. 1021 1027 Mass Ave. I think here we could. So, this is like, this is the street rendering that they provided to us. We could, if we wanted to, we could limit signage to the horizontal band to the area of the horizontal band. Place where it is. You know, we could do something along those lines. I think the safest course of action is to just simply require appropriate signage to be shown on the final plans consistent with the Arlington zoning bylaws sign requirements. So, then as long as whatever they show is consistent with the bylaw, it's, you know, not really a concern. And it's covered in the permit if they want, if they come back and they want something, you know, that requires relief, then they're going to have to request a modification.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 97</summary>

> Right. Is there anything that. Because the board no longer has jurisdiction over signage. It's not something that I've paid much attention to. I do notice that there's a permit requirement. Is there anything that needs to be said to say that. Well, this, this is a comprehensive. Permit local permits. So, the only thing we want to do is make sure that we're stating that it has to comply with the bylaw. Okay. So, would it be helpful to say the substantive provisions of the bylaw just to make clear that we're not telling procedure. Yep.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Blank? - 44</summary>

> Mr. Chair. Mr. Blank. Would it be appropriate for us to add eggs exterior signage out in between appropriate and signage, just to make clear that it's the exterior because there's a whole lot of interior signage that needs to be done as well.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 48</summary>

> I think that's fair. And I think the last sentence of that paragraph is still just fine. Yeah. Does anyone have anything else to suggest about signage. All right. If there's no objection, we could treat this one is done and go on to the next. Mr. Dupont.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Roger Dupont - 160</summary>

> Could we just go back up to E five. I didn't, I may have lost that change. Because where it says and other residents expressing interest. Are we going to change that. Is that, was that the thinking sort of consistent with the prior comments on the previous agenda item. No. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mr. DuPont. Could we just go back up to E five. I didn't, I may have lost that. Change. Because where it says and other residents expressing interest. Are we going to change that. To other residents requesting such notice. Is that it was that the thinking sort of consistent with the. Okay. Let's do requesting notice again. Yeah. Okay. Here, I imagine this is actually all kind of a post website sort of thing. So if they're doing what they say they're doing on the website, they will have automatically addressed this one. Okay. That just matches the language now. Yep. All right.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 270</summary>

> The next, the next one I have is E eight. Does anyone have anything else they'd like to raise before we get there? No. Okay. The thing about the project, the fact that it's all electric. The applicant. Basically we all along, there has been a question about whether or not domestic hot water would be electric. And the applicant's final position on that is that. It would be all electric when it becomes. When it becomes feasible. The way in which the applicant had suggested a condition would have actually required them to use gas, which they disavowed. And so this. Draft here is, is an effort to sort of. To make sure that the project is all electric. So it requires the project to be all electric, which is similar to where the draft we started with. Except that natural gas may be used for domestic hot water. If. Electric domestic hot water is not reasonably feasible. If the project uses natural gas for domestic hot water will be designed to provide future electric. So. Basically, I guess the only thing that is in there and in fairness is that. While they have repeatedly said that what they're looking for is whether or not the domestic hot water is feasible. That's, that was the problem that they were trying to address throughout the course of the proceeding. We haven't really directly addressed that. I think that. I think their underlying position is that. If, if, if. They would prefer domestic hot water, but it's a struggle for them and for many others who are doing multifamily as well.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 123</summary>

> Mr. Chairman, I just have one sort of question of language. Sure. So, where it says to be designed to provide future electric, I was wondering if it would be appropriate to say to provide for conversion to future electric? And the only reason I ask the question is because I don't know if when you're designing a system, you design an either or electric or gas, and whether or not there's some sort of way that you can actually sort of design it in anticipation of converting over. So, it's probably not a big deal either way, but I just thought to provide for conversion to future electric wouldn't harm, wouldn't hurt it. Or maybe even enable would be a better word.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 32</summary>

> Sure. To enable future electric. Because this is really a lot like the wiring for EV charging and things like that that are going on in all of this. Yeah. Mr. LeBlanc.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Adam LeBlanc - 368</summary>

> I was just wondering if maybe we wanted to, I don't know the specific language off the top of my head, but the new specialized stretch code that the town adopted at town meeting has some language around this. Because it is kind of a compliance path with the, with that code to, you can have a mixed fuel building, and they have some good language, I think, around that. Yeah, but the applicant is not, is doing an all electric building. Well, no, that's true, they're not, because they're, it's, it's, because the domestic hot water, if they use domestic hot water, it won't be all electric. But I'm not 100% clear what, what, I mean, there, if you have domestic hot water, I mean, if you have a mixed fuel building, there are other implications about other standards that are applicable and so forth, but I'm not sure I can think of anything that, that would relate to this. I mean, you're not required to do all electric, by definition, if it's a mixed fuel building. It's a little bit dodgy figuring out how the specialized stretch code applies to multifamily and on, on this part as well, but what would you, what would you suggest? I mean, I, I know that there's a lot of, there's language in the stretch code, in the specialized stretch codes that deals with this, but I'm not sure what, I mean, there's no point in our restating that and what is the point from the stretch code that you think we should be, should be in the, the permit? I think the words conversion to help make this more solid. Right, because I think, I don't think that the thought of eventually converting to electricity is in the mixed use pathway. I mean, the, the, the obligations that come from being mixed use have to do largely with your building envelope and that sort of thing, solar and, and various other things like that, but I don't think that, well, there is a general requirement for, you're right, there is a general requirement for wire, for providing wiring, pre-wiring for conversion to electric. Yeah. Mr. Chair. Yeah, Mr. Riccardelli.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Dan Ricardelli - 89</summary>

> I, but I think, I think the language that we just reviewed and what's on the screen now, you know, if they're, they're following the specialized stretch code anyways, they, they're already beholden to that, so we don't need to restate that they need to pre-wire and do all those, all those things that are part of the, the code. I think that this stating that it enables the future conversion to electric is, is good enough because there'll be following that, that new specialized stretch code either way.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 45</summary>

> Yeah, well, at least they will if they get their first building permit after, after January 1st. Yes. Okay, so are we satisfied with the language that's, that now doesn't have any red in it anymore?  Yeah. Okay. The next. Mr. Chair. Yes, Mr.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Venket Holi - 85</summary>

> If I may, if I have one small thing, wouldn't, the way I was, I'm thinking is, couldn't any project be able to convert to electric? Couldn't any project be able to convert to electric, irrespective of what the system currently is?  So, could we just say that the current design to enable future conversion, so that the current design incorporates things that will enable or make it more ready, you know, to pick up the word that you said on the solar readiness?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 21</summary>

> Well, yeah, they, they actually will have solar, but I don't, I mean, this isn't intended to insist on solar resonance.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Venket Holi - 50</summary>

> No, what I'm, what I'm saying is that any project could be converted in the future, right? So, how is this different than any other project? Is that the current design should have some features in a way that would enable the conversion, right? Right. So, how is that correct?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 162</summary>

> I mean, basically, facilitate isn't quite enough and enable is too much, but what you're aiming at is conceivably, I mean, really, actually, Mr. Holy, this is similar to the point that Mr. LeBlanc is making and attempting to find a way to, I mean, with, in the stretch code, it's pre-wiring. Right. And I frankly don't know what it is with domestic hot water, because that involves a different set of problems than the problems that come from changing to heat pumps. So, I, I don't really have the knowledge and I don't think we have in the record the knowledge to be able to be much more specific. So, I guess. Do we want to leave it at enable or do enable and facilitate? I would, I don't mind saying enable and facilitate. I think that, that works. I mean, remember that this is actually one where we're not beating on their head, we're just basically accepting their, their offer.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 85</summary>

> E10? E10. This is the essence of E10 was the request of the applicant to say that the undergrounding only is the, is only in the, was when you're, has to do with utilities that are entering the property, that they don't have an obligation to change overhead lines and so forth that already exist and that are out and that don't actually enter into their property. And it's a request that comes from the applicant. Does anyone have any comment on that? That's fine.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 95</summary>

> Okay. The next major change is E12. So, this is a lot like the federal budget where we add four or five conditions, but then we have to subtract one in order to balance it. But they're not doing soil testing. And they're not doing infiltration. So, it, I think it's superfluous. Yikes. Okay. The next one is E13. This is, relates to the, the concerns that were expressed by the applicant on the, the need for going outside the ordinary hours of operation. And I wonder, Mr. Klein, if you could explain this one.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 198</summary>

> Sure. So, essentially the, the waiver request was to change the, the weekday hours from starting at 8 a.m. to starting at 7 a.m. And then the Saturday hours to 8 a.m. from 9 a.m. And then what we are doing here as well, what is more enumerated in the, the waiver request is that we are removing Sunday and the holiday hours to balance it out. And then the part that's here in blue and red, the hours may be extended on a temporary basis as necessary by written agreement with the Director of Planning and Community Development. It's a little more affirmative than the request from the applicant, which was just that upon notice of the Director of Planning, and if there's no response within 14 hours, 14 days, it's assumed to be accepted. I think it's more important that there be an affirmative response. Just to point out that there's also nothing in here about extraordinary circumstances or anything like that. It's essentially, if it's reasonably necessary, the example that Ms. O'Connor gave us had to do with pouring concrete and where you can't just stop in the middle because it changes its nature overnight.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 30</summary>

> So, is there any discussion of this one? All right. If there's no objection, we can proceed to E14. Mr. Kline, maybe you should start by sort of explaining this.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 146</summary>

> So, E14, that first line, the one that's highlighted, used to be a part of E13. But we had, it just sort of felt sort of tacked on, so I had pulled it off. But then we did have some conversations about parking and not having construction people park on the street. And so, I just wanted to add this second line that the contractor may make arrangements to park vehicles on adjacent private property, but public ways may only be used for deliveries by a prior arrangement with the Town of Arlington unless included in an approved CMP. So that basically, when they're developing the CMP with the Town, they can include in their provisions about parking and whatnot, but it's that they know that they can't just assume they can park on the street, that it has to be a part of the CMP.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 394</summary>

> Okay, so what, there's a, we dealt with this on August 15th, and Mr. Gross-Hendler addressed all of this. And I think that the provision that is in the orange sentence relating to arrangements to parking vehicles on adjacent property is one of the things that he said that they were trying to do. He was also agreeable specifically to no parking on Michael Street. He wanted, however, to be able to allow, I think the context here was basically controlling employee parking rather than sticking earth-moving equipment there, but wanted to be able to park where parking was otherwise permitted or in front of meters. So this is somewhat narrower than Mr. Gross-Hendler thought he wanted, but it is less specific in that the applicant is perfectly willing to commit now that no matter what, they won't let people park on Michael Street. And I guess, for me at least, I'm not quite sure what works or what doesn't, and whether they need anything beyond the, they need any to be able to do the parking that would be prohibited by this. I would sort of like to have some, a bit of language that says that, you know, that whatever happens, the people on Michael Street are protected from this. There may be some discussions about other things and agreements with the town, but I'd like to have Michael Street have the protection that the applicant had agreed that they would provide to them. And I wonder if maybe, in no event will employee parking be allowed on, or would construction parking be allowed on Michael Street? Is that? I think that both gives the Michael Street people the protection that they were offered, and also the flexibility that Christian has put into the orange language of being able to, you know, relieve the hardship if we've got, if there's a problem in some way, or, and in any event, doing it in the CMP provides enough flexibility that I think it's highly unlikely that this will prove to be a problem with the applicant. Does anyone have anything further on this one? All right. I'll fix the numbering later. All right. The next. 18. I think it's evident what that relates to. Is there any discussion? Okay, if there's no objection, let's go on to the next one. I have E-22.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Roger Dupont - 192</summary>

> Mr. Chairman? Yes. I have a question about E-20. And I was just wondering, as I was reading that, I was thinking actually of the town's bylaws with regard to snow removal on sidewalks and such. And I didn't know, because I think that, you know, the premise is that they are obligated to follow whatever those bylaws are anyway. But I didn't know if it was worth mentioning, because one of the things in particular, this is a narrow street, and one of the sections, so it's actually Title III, Article I, and the applicable sections that would relate to this building would be 25, 26, and 33. And 33 would have to do with not, you know, shoveling snow into the street. So, I mean, I could take the position that it's totally unnecessary to make any reference to the bylaw, which is binding anyway. Or I didn't know if people felt that it would be useful to make reference to that just to remind them. So, it's a question. I don't really have a suggestion one way or the other. I just wanted to know what other people thought.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 245</summary>

> Did the, Christian, did this originally have, there was some language about public ways also, and something we just looked at in E18. And that deals with snow also. It says snow may not be placed in or adjacent to resource areas or public ways. Does that language take care of what you're looking for, Mr. DePauw? Yeah, so that takes care of Section 33. And then 25 and 26 are for apartment buildings and businesses. And that's just the requirement that you have to shovel the sidewalks. And again, I know that that's an obligation that stands whether it's stated in this or not. I just didn't know if anybody wanted to add it just for emphasis. Would it work? I mean, we could do it the way that is being suggested here, where we actually, or would you prefer having something that would say, in effect, the applicant is required to comply with all provisions of the town bylaw or with the town bylaw regulating snow removal or some, and give the citation to it? Yeah, that would work too. That's kind of how I had it written. But I think, you know, sort of putting it in text is also fine. So I don't mean to be wishy-washy, but I think what Christian just wrote is also fine. It just states don't forget to do the sidewalks. Okay. That sounds great. Does that work for everybody? Any objection to it? All right.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 164</summary>

> Why don't we move on then to 22. 22 is just basically, I think, of course, recognizing that that there's a waiver of fees, which happens in the waivers. So after that, the next I have is 26. So this actually, I guess, was my suggestion. This began saying that they have to pay all the fees, and then we, including and listing a bunch of things, and then excluding inflow and infiltration fees, which is always the case, and now excluding. And the things that you are excluding with that blue language is pretty much everything that was included in the including language. And I figured it would just be simpler and easier to understand if you just eliminated that specificity and stated it more clearly. more generally. So this is basically, in a way, stylistic and attempting to make it a little simpler. Anyone have any discussion on this one? All right, E29. I can, so I, yes, go ahead, Mr. Klein.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 349</summary>

> I was going to say, so essentially, on the prior project, we had received CMP information ahead of the hearing, close of the hearing. Here, we did not. But this one here was specifically about truck path diagrams. And so I had wanted to include in here that the applicant shall submit truck access diagrams to the board showing turning paths for construction vehicles, approaching, accessing, and departing the site. These diagrams shall be included and approved as a part of the CMP. And then we could further add the last line there, the truck access to the site and egress on the site shall be from Sunnyside Avenue and shall not use any neighborhood residential street, including Michael Street. I just don't know, turning radius of trucks and all that, how practical that is going to be. It's very possible that trucks will need to, they can come from Broadway down Sunnyside, but I don't know if they would actually have room to U-turn or any way turn around before, and whether they would have to leave straight. We could exclude them from Michael Street, which would include them from a larger part of the neighborhood. And then they would need to stay essentially on Sunnyside until they get out to Mystic Valley Parkway. But to do that, I mean, how would you get out to Mystic Valley Parkway? Sunnyside doesn't go all the way through, although there is a later street that connects you up with another street that does. I guess I think I'm the one who raised this. I did think it would be, it was useful to try to keep people off Michael Street, since that could get to be a significant thing. But we don't have much of a record here that shows how feasible that is. I was kind of depending upon the five architects on the board to have a judgment on that. And at least Mr. Klein does have a judgment that it might be problematic. And so I'm willing to back off from this one. Mr. Chair. Mr. Riccardelli.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Dan Ricardelli - 80</summary>

> I agree with what Mr. Klein just said. I think we might be overly limiting them. And then if we do that, we may be forcing all the trucks onto another small residential street that may create other issues. So. Okay. So if nobody is too nostalgic in seeing that go, we can get on to the next one, which I think we go for the F. F1 looks to me a lot like a stylistic change, but Mr. Klein.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 69</summary>

> So basically it's just a clarification. That access from the site, it's going to be from Sunnyside. The people are not, it should be obvious given that we don't have multiple entry points. Okay. So any comment on that one?  All right. Why don't we go on to F3? The 11 is the number that was requested by the applicant. Right. And this corresponds with the waiver request.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 157</summary>

> Great. So the next ones up are F5 and F6, which both deal with the bicycle parking. It relates to what we had a discussion in connection with the waiver on this point. And we'll get to that again when we go back to that. So the applicant's proposal, leaving the waiver aside, the applicant originally proposed, I think 72 overall spaces. And in order to obtain additional flexibility, reduce that to 60 long-term and five short-term. The long-term spaces, if I'm not mistaken, I'm Mr. Klein, correct me, but I think the bylaw would require 66 of those and six in the short-term. So that this involves a slight deviation from what's in the bylaw, but not very much. And it was part of what the applicant felt it needed to deal with the sort of difficult problems of allocating space on that garage level. Mr. Klein, do you have anything more to say about that?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 17</summary>

> No, 66 and six are the requirement and 60 and five is what they have expressly requested.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 50</summary>

> Any other discussion? All right, so let's accept those and move on. F8. F8. So I've learned a lot about F8 in the course of the afternoon and I'm going to keep my mouth shut on it because I haven't really necessarily studied up for the exam yet. Mr. Klein.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 357</summary>

> So the applicant is showing on their plan, starting with two vehicle charging stations. So that's the two electric stations serving four vehicles. And then they shall provide future expansion for five additional parking spaces per the EV charging stations plan. So they provided a plan that shows nine total spaces having EV chargers. And that's a plan that they had submitted to us at one of the subsequent hearings. So they had said that they were looking to add five additional EV chargers. So there's some question as to whether that meant 10 spaces, 10 additional spaces, but they definitely don't show 12. They definitely show nine. It seems to me pretty clear from the EV charging stations plan. And Mr. Ricardelli will no doubt take an interest in this because it was in a colloquy that if I confused myself, it was in a colloquy that he had with the applicant that where the applicant's answers led to my confusion. But as I understand what they've really shown, the business about charging stations happened was discussed briefly, very briefly on August 15th. In fact, if you forgot about the charging stations and you just stuck with what they said then and later, it would just be that it would serve four parking spaces, that you would be EV ready on four and you would be EV capable on five. And the EV capable is intended, at least my interpretation of it, when they use the language EV capable, what they mean is what's required under the updated stretch code and the specialized stretch code, which is essentially pre-wiring. And I think this language does that. It may have too much of a concession to my original idea of trying to clarify what charging stations were, but the essence of it appears to me to be there. And I also think it's not gonna be a practical problem because this is so closely aligned to what is always going to come up as a building code matter in future developments. And Mr. Champa is gonna know exactly how to enforce this. Pardon me. Any further comment?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 457</summary>

> All right, so the next one. Yes. Oh, just confirm me that that makes sense to me. I agree with, that's what I heard too. Just echoing what Mr. Klein said that up to nine in the future. Great. Okay, the next one we have here is 10. Mr. Havarty, were you trying to? Oh, I think it's just background. All right. I'll put it on mute. I didn't see that it was you either. I just heard something in the background. So number 10, I guess I ought to address this. As you remember from what we've done in connection with the waiver is we wanted to pay some attention to the need to do some kind of a transportation demand management program. And the language that is here is, and it is true that much of what is listed in the bylaw is the kind of thing to consider in deciding in having a transportation demand management program is things that the applicant can't do like charge for parking because of the nature of the financing that underlies the 40B process. And so, or at least that does in this, with their kind of a proposal. We had a long colloquy with Ms. O'Connor. They're really interested in providing things like notification to people and so forth. So the purpose of this is really to require in more detail, a transportation demand management program, which already was required by the draft that Mr. Havarty developed originally, but which elaborates it a little bit more and emphasizes their willingness and ability to do certain things and to provide some basis in the decision for a view that we take in the waiver section that we think that the transportation demand management program that is envisaged here would be sufficient to justify the exercise of our discretion to reduce the number of parking spaces from 39 to 21. And so that is kind of what the purpose of that is. Any discussion? All right, that would bring us to 11. This is something that was discussed on the 15th as well. Everybody thinks that this work ought to be done to repair sidewalks and improve the producer's safety. The sidewalk that is just to the south of this site is something that the residents of this project are going to be walking over all the time as they try to get to the transit options. And it's not in great shape. And the applicant can't do offsite improvements consistent with the financing as they've told us several times. So this is what they've asked for as a way of defining their commitment to help solve this problem. Mr. Klein, do you have something to say about that?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 239</summary>

> So the request from the applicant was to say to repair the sidewalk from Broadway, the project site at the town's expense. I had originally put in the language to the extent allowed by the applicants, funders and lenders, which would sort of say so that if, if there was anything that the applicant could do, that they could do so. Whereas here, if we say to the other town's expenses or it takes them completely off the hook for any possible funding of any kind of repairs. But they were very clear that they couldn't pay. So I think this may just be two ways of saying the exact same thing. So it could just say to the extent allowed by the applicants, funders and lenders and at the town's expense. We can do or if that makes more sense. Right. Okay, I wonder if it would make sense just in an abundance of caution to say at the expense of the town or other third parties, you never can tell whether there's somebody else who might be able to step up to this foundation or something like that, that isn't the town. Could be the state even. I would say third parties, not interested parties. Thank you. That probably doesn't make any practical difference, but at least it expands it out notionally to include other potential people who could fund it. That's the way it would look.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Dan Ricardelli - 70</summary>

> Yeah. Thank you. All right. Is there any further discussion of this one? Mr. Riccadeli, you look like you're. Yeah, may I just ask one question? Sure. So if I'm reading that correctly, support efforts. So are we asking them to do the work or just coordinate with potentially the town who would do the work off of the property of the project site? I think it could be, Christian,
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 152</summary>

> I'll just quickly, I think it could be any of these things. Working with the department, I mean, it is conceivable that the Department of Public Works would say, we'll throw in a few extra dollars. And as part of the same construction program that you're starting in, it would be efficient for you to do it. While we do this. And that would be, I'm sure one of the things that might happen. But there could be others. And the second sentence might very well be that they'll support the neighborhood, the local neighborhood corporation in getting it done. Or remember that sidewalk is in front of another building. Right. Maybe that person is willing to get together and get it done. So I think that the idea here is to make it as broad as possible, that they should look at the opportunities that there are to make this work.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 153</summary>

> Mr. Kline. Yeah. I mean, essentially it's not to encumber the applicant to have to do something, but that to the extent that they're able to assist, they ought to assist. Understood. This is reminding me of our tree discussion on the last 4DB where, once it was off the site, it got kind of tricky to ask someone to do anything. So I understand how, why this is a little bit vague in terms of how we phrased it. Some can extend it's aspirational. I mean, if all of this, and all of the people who spoke to us were willing to write to the Department of Public Works and saying, please help do this, pay for this. Or we could do something at town meeting, but it's hard to deal with these situations, but it's better to deal with it this way, I think, than to let it go. Yeah, understood.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 296</summary>

> All right, number 12. We're in a heavy, there's lots of red here in 12 and 13. So this one, you'll remember that one of the things that we've been talking about right from the very beginning is the safety of the entrance at the garage. And it has always been agreed that there'll be some sort of visual or auditory warning that is designed to reduce the chance of accidents and injuries as people go in and out of there. And this is just a simple sentence that's designed to capture the gist of what that discussion was. Obviously, we did not get into the details and ultimately the town's, Mr. Alessi is going to be the person or his successor will be the person who has to decide whether this is an appropriate system or not. Mr. Chair, may I ask a question?  Mr. Riccardelli. Does the town have a, do we have a regulation for that or is that just, do we have a requirement for auditory and visual warnings? Mr. Cohen, I don't believe we do, but- I don't believe we do. Okay, I only ask because just having worked in, you know, Cambridge and other towns in Boston, sometimes the bylaw explicitly asks not to have the auditory warning because it's very disruptive to residents because it goes off so often during the day. And it sounds like an alarm bell. So just posing that question to the group that, that's why often urban settings you'll see the flashing sign but not the beeping. Yep and or that's what I was thinking too. That presumably will capture the attention of the senior transportation planner. Okay number 13. I'll let Christian, Mr. Klein, why don't you take this one is mine
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 272</summary>

> so it has nothing to do with the garage door anymore. The applicant so this was basically we had discussed establishing a loading zone in front of the building in front of the project and there was also some discussion at a prior hearing about the narrowness of the street and and the inability to that currently there's parking all the way to the corner and so it makes it difficult to see around the corner when you're trying to leave the street. So essentially what this is is the just saying that the applicant shall propose to the transportation advisory committee that the town establish a loading zone on Sunnyside Ave and in addition shall request that the no parking zone be established at the corner with Broadway to better accommodate vehicle queuing at the intersection. So all it does and the applicant has already said that they would be willing to do it is just to basically write a letter to the transportation advisory committee requesting that they investigate making these two changes to the street. Certainly having no parking at the corner given there's there is a lot at rush hour there's quite a lot of traffic that comes from the neighboring the parking lot of the building immediately next to them to the south and that turns there and it's it's all kind of hard to see but it'll come out there and then you'll make a right turn to get up to Broadway and clearing that area out will make that an easier maneuver than it is when under some circumstances where there's lots of parking there.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 147</summary>

> All right does that seem acceptable to everyone? All right that any that means we've graduated from F and we're willing to and we're able to embark on G and there's a surprise at the end I'm not going to tell you what it is but it you'll you'll no doubt be delighted to hear it. The first one is to is just to make sure contact information is regularly updated. Is there any discussion of that? Okay on G5. We talked a little bit about this in general about what they could do and should do and so forth. They obviously don't have a lot of room around the consensus I think from everyone is that inevitably the fire chief has got to decide what's acceptable and this is entire is intended intended to effectuate that. Christian is there more to it than that or Paul?
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 40</summary>

> It was a request from the applicant to start to make that change as required by the fire chief. I think determined is a better word just because that the fire chief will make a determination they won't establish requirements.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 527</summary>

> Yeah that's fine with me. Great okay if there's nothing else we're ready to go to G6. G6 adds in the approved lighting plan which which we'll talk about in a little bit but the idea is to give effect to what they've already provided and as you'll remember there was a lot of discussion about lighting strategies and whether you light things up in order for have safety or whether you don't light them up in order to and the approved lighting plan was worked out as I understand it with the community so that including it in here at least links back to the discussions that we had. Does anyone else have any comment on that? All right so we're now down to eight. Wait a minute there's missing a G. There was something I expected to be in G that oh hold on let me see it's something fire let's see if I can see what I had and well apparently not I'm not seeing what it is that I looked at and I'd have to go back to an earlier draft to try to remind myself what it was. Oh I yeah I guess that's now I just realized it was a note I had on G6. I don't feel really strongly about this but everything else on here has to the heading here has to do with the police and the fire department so anybody reading this opinion is going to look at police fire department sorts of things and it's when I on the lighting plan it seemed to me that that's more a design issue than a police issue and that while you could put it anywhere that it's not the first place somebody would go looking for something that has to do with lighting and I wanted to raise with you the possibility that it would be appropriate to move G6 to the portion that deals with design that we already dealt with. I don't feel strongly about this it's really just a matter of trying to make it a little bit more user-friendly but I and I don't think that Christian necessarily has to immediately do that but I wonder whether there's anyone else who thinks that this might be better located in a different place. This is sort of couched in the being for the to ensure the safety of the residents of the project so it is right it's there's a logical sense to it yeah actually we actually I don't know that if we said if G were to say police fire emergency medical conditions and public safety that would solve my problem because it's just really a matter of alerting people that this is a place where you might find a provision of this kind. Easier adjustment to make yes that's right and at this point that's a significant consideration. Thank you. Are we into the H's?  Yes we're ready for it straight into the H's the only thing is H5. This is at the request of the applicant to have public works work with them on the disconnects. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dupont.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Roger Dupont - 155</summary>

> So on H5 when I saw that where we were saying Arlington Department of Public Works shall work with the applicant so it seems like we are making we're directing public works to do something and I wasn't sure whether or not and now that you've said what you said by the way it gives me a pause but I didn't know whether it would be better off reversed saying the applicant shall work with the Department of Public Works on permitting disconnects but maybe if it was requested by the applicant and they want to emphasize to the town that they need the town's help perhaps it should stay as is but when I read it originally we're directing the applicant to do all these things and then all of a sudden we're directing the Department of Public Works to do something which seems out of keeping with the rest of what we're doing.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Haverty - 95</summary>

> So I actually raised that point on August 15th and Mr. Havarty addressed it and so I'll give Mr. Havarty a time to catch his breath and then if he can remember what he said. I mean the the applicant does have a fairly persuasive thing that they really need the assistance to do this in order to get the job done and sometimes there are moratoria that otherwise happen so you can't do this work and it can lead to long delays that was as I recall that was the basic rationale for it
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 106</summary>

> and Mr. Havarty had when I raised the same point you did Mr. DuPont Mr. Havarty had what I at the time thought was an acceptable answer but I don't remember what it was. Well neither do I. Would people be more. I mean this seems to be appropriate as drafted. I'm okay with it I just it just sort of stood out that's fine. I wetlands and floodplains. There's only one major change in I that I can see offhand yes it is in I or and I wonder if Mr. Havarty if you could excuse me Mr. Klein if you could address that one.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 71</summary>

> Yeah essentially this was originally written for the projects we had where there were landscaped areas that were within the under the jurisdiction of the conservation commission and we don't have those kinds of things here neither do we have lawns and so just saying that the application of plant nutrients shall comply with you know state law and no other herbicides or treatments are approved just leave it at that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 578</summary>

> Is there any discussion of that okay so the next section section k is what has the nice surprise because actually there's not going to be a section k because we skipped over j so now we're going to make it all j instead which makes it at least notionally shorter. Other than changing the numbers the major change here is in what will become j5 and I think that Mr. Klein correct me if I'm wrong but that basically is on came originally from from I think either 1165r or 1021 mass s which is the one that we're going to be looking at are 1021 mass av and is not really appropriate given what is what is happening here yeah this was more for a more substantial system than is being proposed here all right I think that's it oh with with this exception assuming it turns out to be true there's a blank on the record of the vote and I'm hoping that you will agree with me that that should that in the decision that's in the last part of the record of the vote that we should part of the record of the vote that we should we would be able to enter 12 there all right so we can go back if if there's no objection is there anything else on any of the things that we just covered we have a few more things to raise at the beginning uh to including the sort of numbering of the of the of the exhibits the approved plans and so what I'd like to do is go back go through those and that will cover the findings in the first few of the uh up to f excuse me te did through d and then go back to the waivers where there's there's a little but there's not very much this should not take long all right so off I'm sorry I was just taking a highlight off of number 25 um 31 this is I think just a numbering issue with 31 I had written something that was supposed to go in that I promised last time that is now 32 yep 31 there's something I think when we accept 32 it'll fix 31 but okay good so the last time we had had a discussion about providing a little more information about the the sustainability of the project and particularly I focused on the well you can see what I did basically it aims at discussing the approach they have to almost all electric passive house and with a phrase describing in a set in a phrase what it is passive house is and the fact that there would be rooftop uh pv cells run for on-site generation um all of which except for the slight elaboration on what passive house is is uh is taken from their their submission so it's it's really intended to just be a straight a straightforward discussion um there's a footnote there I think it may be the only footnote in the entire thing but it refers to the specialized stretch code because I think one of us at least had suggested last time that they thought it was appropriate to mention that they would be required to do some of these things anyway and that would be true of passive house so that's it's big minus 6 32 yep Mr. Chairman yes Mr. Riccadeli
</details>
<details><summary>	 Dan Ricardelli - 150</summary>

> Mr. um so that this is this is a technicality but um so there there's two passive house versions there's FIAS and uh PHI both both are allowable under the code so I wonder if we should not be putting FIAS in parentheses um once the international standard once the U.S. standard this is the U.S. standard but what is the problem with we'd be specifying which one they chose they've already told us which ones they're choosing they're choosing FIAS oh okay this of course is only a finding effect right so it's not like it's a condition that they have to do it but that that is what they've said they're using so those are all the blasted a little bit in the findings and then we're onto conditions again um so this eight accepting August 1st and then turn off the highlight all right then a2 a2
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 377</summary>

> Mr. Klein so I have confirmation that we so we have revised civil plans that are dated August 1st we do not have revised architectural plans for anything neither do we have specific lighting plans and specific landscape plans those all that information was included in presentations that were provided by the applicant and so in working back and forth with myself and Pat and Paul we sort of came up with this notion that um so we'll still say that is the drawings dated March 9th with the revision through August 1st and also includes the supplemental materials prepared by UTL Inc. Sam Yetta's consultants and offshoots and submitted to the board on May 2nd May 16th June 13th July 10th and August 1st and consisting of the following sheets and then so the sheets here these are the dates that are on the various sheets so you'll see the C's do have an 8-1 the A's are all still three nines and then sort of enumerating what is in the other packages so project introduction site context sheets 2 through 19 of the 5-2 package bicycle parking information which talks about you know where the parking is going to be how much parking and has some indication of how they want to do the stacked parking so that's included in that information the material diagrams that's the materials for the exterior of the building the lighting plan which we go back and reference is on the June 13th the EV charging station plan is on the June 13th the landscape plans are on the June 13th and then the solar impact study which we reference in the findings that's sheet that's also on the August 1st so this is sort of the best way we could find to sort of handle the difficult situation of not having a final updated set of drawings from the applicant right and and it's it's helpful that not only is the date but the sheet number will make it easier for to find I mean the point ultimately is that the people who have to look at the final plans need to know unambiguously what to look back at and I think adding that helps do that as well.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 301</summary>

> So I guess I should ask the question, does anybody have a better idea? Any suggestions or objections to doing it this way? All right, let's take it as done. Okay. So I don't know if we have anything else before we get, before ye, where we, I don't have anything in my notes. Christian, do you have anything? Um, I would just go through just to make absolutely sure. So D2B, the request from the applicant was that the plan shall be, this is about the management plan and they had asked that it be submitted after its approval by the Executive Office of Housing and Livability. I had just wanted to recommend adding submitted to the board because it's unclear as to who it's supposed to be submitted to. Okay. Is there any comment on that?  All right, seeing none. All right, and then the E's we just did, I just haven't got around to accepting it yet. Yeah. All right, so we can jump forward all the way, Pat, all the way to the waivers at this point. E5, yeah, we did that. We did E6. And I'll go back and verify the numbering one last time before we have the final version. I don't know why that, what that is about. Mr. Havard, it is true that, isn't it, that once we can vote on this and if we need to, if the numbering changes and so forth, that's the kind of administrative correction that would require an additional, any additional action from the whole board. Is that correct? Absolutely correct, yes. We'll make sure that the names flow properly too. All right, so that brings us back to the waivers again. Right, so the first waiver is what, is it E3, is that, Mr. Klein?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 181</summary>

> So waiver, yeah, so waiver one we were fine with, it's the step back. Waiver two has to do with 24 foot rear yard, there's only going to be five. Number three has to do with landscaped open number three has to do with landscaped open space and usable open space. Unfortunately, in the August 15th hearing, the applicant agreed to calculate those figures and then we closed the hearing. So we don't have actual numbers from them. I tried to run the numbers myself and I was coming up with, so the building GFA is listed as 49,000 square feet. I was coming up with around 4,900 square feet between the ground floor level and the upper level patio for landscape. So they're actually close to complying with the 10%. They may actually comply with it, I just don't know for certain. We are certain that they don't comply with the usable open space. So going back and forth, rather than necessarily plugging in numbers, just say the applicant proposes landscaped open space approaching 10% and no usable open space.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 168</summary>

> Right. And that's just the best information we have and then we just say the waiver is granted consistent with the approved plans and just leave it at that. So what's operative here is just that last, the waiver granted consistent with the approved plans, which is sort of what the applicant had wanted. Having more precise numbers or having actual really wouldn't affect the bottom line particularly. We might conceivably have said you probably meet the landscape over bidding in view of the fact that we can't be sure that that's true. We would not be on very solid grounds denying the waiver on the ground that they met it when we're not quite sure that they do. So I think that this ends up taking us in a more rigorous way, but pretty much to the same place. Is that basically right? Yeah. So then not having any better information, this is giving what our understanding is. Does anyone have any suggestions, other calculations? All right.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 811</summary>

> So why don't we pass on the next one? I think is number four, correct? It is. Here one of the issues, the issue we struggled with last time was that the presentation to us was somewhat unclear as to what it is that the applicant actually needed. From the beginning, they were been asking for an undifferentiated number of 43 bicycle spaces, but they've always been maintaining that they plan to provide much more than that. And they specifically sought at our meeting on August the 15th to encourage us to reduce, they give them more flexibility by reducing down to the 60 and five that we discussed earlier as part of the conditions. And that seemed to be what it is that they really needed and what it is that they really wanted. And obviously the 43 would be hard to justify because, and they had suggested at least that they wanted to go down to 21, which happens to be the number for the vehicle parking spaces that is just miles away from anything that they actually proposed to do or ever justified to us that they needed to do. So we're a little bit unclear as to what it is that we ought to do about that. One option is to sort of stick with the 43 and another is to just waive it to the extent that they actually are requesting of us in the plans that they've provided. Mr. Havarty's advice to us is not to grant them with a waiver that is not reflected in approved plans. The 60 and five are not really reflected in plans itself because those were orally requested and on August the 15th and there's no plan that shows them. But the earlier plan lays out where they would be and a great deal of information about them. And we're sort of, we are what we are on that because our conditioning has, the condition that we approved a few minutes ago focuses on the 60 and five. I would be comfortable approving a waiver that is limited to the extent of what they said they needed the flexibility to do. And would be reluctant especially given the dramatic reduction in the parking and the unusual nature of the TDM plan. I'd be very reluctant to go more than they indicated that they wanted to do. So, that would be the view I take. It's a little bit stricter than what I was toying with last week. But as time went on, I felt increasingly that they have a proposal, they need a waiver to do that proposal and we should allow them to do that and not allow a great deal more that we have no justification in the record for. So, that's me trying to persuade you. But I've been in a minority before. I can handle it. Does anyone else have a further discussion on this? And the next part is a total departure. I'm sorry? Say that the next section of this is a sort of a total departure from what we had proposed last time. So, but basically this is just saying that we're here confirming what they have specifically requested. And we had originally said that we would provide the waiver. I'm suggesting that we deny the waiver. They say waiver denied. A waiver from the requirements of the bicycle parking design guidelines and section 6.1.12 bicycle parking and the zoning bylaw is unnecessary as the board may modify the requirements of the bylaw based on specific conditions unique to the proposal that's in the bylaw. The bicycle parking indicated on the approved plans providing 60 long-term and five short-term bicycle parking spaces accepted. Stacked bicycle parking is also approved per the approved plan. And the reason I'm recommending this is that we are exercising our normal actions that we're allowed to do. But I'm very nervous about doing a blanket waiver of the bicycle section because then they don't have to do any parking at all. And there's other provisions about like the size of bike parking spaces and things that have never been at issue that would also just be discarded. So I think it's important to maintain that. The only thing they've really talked about is the stacked parking. So I did want to make sure that we indicated that that would be approved. But otherwise everything that they're requesting is stuff that we are allowed to grant them. The only suggestion I would have for a change on that is to actually have the language state that rather than the parking be accepted that it's approved. Just to make it very clear that the board's granting that approval. So what would you have? So in five short-term bicycle parking spaces is accepted. I would just change accepted to approved.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 128</summary>

> Okay. Okay. Yeah. Just to avoid any confusion. And that language is already there in the approved plans. It's already there in the next sentence as well. Correct. May I ask a question about this one? Absolutely. So this is referencing the approved plans and after our last session I was trying to track down the numbers. And when I look at the latest architectural plan set which like Mr. Klein pointed out has not been updated in quite some time now. The front page says 37 long-term bicycle parking spaces and six short-term spaces. So I tend to agree with Mr. Hanlon that I don't think that that would be adequate. But by saying based on the approved plans are we contradicting ourselves or is that okay?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 59</summary>

> Well it raises an interesting question. Because there is a specific bicycle plan I think in the June 13th hearing. Yeah. Which again doesn't have the it has numbers that are that were what the plan was then. And before they sought to reduce it on August the 15th. Christian do you have the ability to bring that up?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein and Others - 611</summary>

> Yeah I am. I will have it for you in a second here. That's the EV parking. It's near the same one that shows the stacking. Yeah. Well if I reference the drawings where I said where exactly that could be found. So bike park information is oh May 16th. It's into May 16th. May 16th 2-5. Okay. Open May 16th. It's called Bicycle Parking Capacity Study. You share. Here they calculated there that the total required was 64.8 spaces. And that what was being provided was 64 spaces. That's long term. And at that time they were at 4.8 spaces and 8 spaces. And this shows sort of where it is everything was supposed to be. Now what we don't have it would have been great to have. But all we got was a request to take what they had before and to reduce it down to 60 long term and 5 short term. But otherwise and it's not of course completely clear exactly where that would happen. But this is probably more. It's later and I mean this is where they were on May 16th. That's as opposed to March 9th. Do we have any additional. No this is just the ground floor. So we could. So I'm a little bit one of the things that's clear to me just before we get I know that it's I mean it's quite awkward that the plans are as irregular as they are. And I'm sure that's that's all my fault because I wasn't really paying enough attention to making them formalized in real time the things that they were proposing to change. But the fact is they're proposing 60 and 5. And we actually are requiring 60 and 5. That's a condition. If we if we waived it up to 43 then we still they have a condition that it says 60 and 5. So all that we're all that I think of that we're doing in connection with the waiver is making it agree with the conditions. And that that slide might make some of the difficulties of making all of the drawings to match up seem less important. Then now if I go back to our document. So we could say bicycle parking. Bicycle parking providing 60 long term and 5 short for bicycle parking spaces. I could say is approved per conditions 5 F5 and F6. I guess they were F5 and F6. Do we want to list the findings as well? I don't think so. I guess I mean my sense of it well the findings are there and what they are. I guess the thing is they're not regulatory and the conditions are. But I don't know that there's any harm in it. The bicycle parking information plans. I think that's what I called it in A2. Bicycle parking information. So this would clean this up. So waiver from the requirements of the bicycle parking design guidelines in section 6.1.12 bicycle parking in the zoning bylaw is unnecessary as the board may modify the requirements of the bylaw based on specific conditions unique to the proposal. The bicycle parking. So I think it just says bicycle parking. Bicycle parking providing 60 long term and 5 short term bicycle parking spaces is approved per conditions F5 and F6. Stacked bicycle parking is also approved for the bicycle parking information. They provide. That flows better. Bicycle parking consisting of 60 long-term and five short-term bicycle parking spaces is approved per conditions F5 and F6. Stacked bicycle parking is also approved per the provided bicycle parking information. Read well to people? It does. Paul, does that seem appropriate?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 212</summary>

> Yes. Perfect. That brings us to six. So the applicant requests a waiver to allow 11 spaces. They had said 60 percent or 11. I wasn't sure if we wanted to include the term 60 percent or not. I think if we don't, we're just saying 11 spaces and we're not in any jeopardy, either way. There's a certain cognitive dissonance that comes from the fact that they're providing 21 spaces and 60 percent of that is 12.6. Does that really mean that we're just doing 12.6 and what does that mean for the 11s? I'm not sure to what extent I care about that because I'm not one of the architects and I'm not quite sure how problematic it would be to have 12 rather, but I think I would tend to go with the lesser number that they ask for. Similarly in seven, during the hearing, they had specifically talked about 22, not 21. Now here, just to recapture the chair for a moment, Dan had ideas that we were very attracted by on this, Mr. Riccardelli, last time if I'm not mistaken, and I wonder if there's anything that would need to be done to open things up to his thoughts on the matter, or maybe I'm just misremembering.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Dan Ricardelli - 89</summary>

> Mr. Chair, I think just if I could reiterate, I think I was supposing that the single-sided aisle didn't need to be quite so large, but I think Mr. Havardy pointed out the time that we should be granting what is proposed on the plan, which is 22. So I think that's where we landed. Okay, that sounds great. Now one thing we could do as a compromise is say 21 and then put 22 in numbers so that everyone's confused. They'd know that we were ambivalent about it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 262</summary>

> There you go. All right, so they had requested 21. We're leaving it at 22 per the approved plans. Well, actually it's 21 now, right? Oh, no, we're going to leave. I get it. Yep. 22 is on the drawing, so that's what we're doing. And then I just thought at the end of the decision, it should say it's the end of the decision, so people don't go looking for another page. That's a good idea. The end. With fancy gothic type. Aye. Just to get that out there. So there are no more comments or track changes. That's everything. All right, so we're now at the point where we've reviewed the entirety of the decision that we can put in 12, which makes me feel very happy, although we haven't achieved it yet. So just in terms of a procedure, we've usually gone through and given each of us an opportunity to say as much as they feel they have to say on where they stand on it. And I would call the roll, allow us to do that. And then at that point, accept a motion to approve. The plan that we have before us as we've amended it this evening. So having done that, I guess let me just call the roll and you all know that you get to do Miller's the amount of time it takes to finally get to Miller time at the end is indirectly proportional to the amount of time we spent talking about it. So the first person up is Mr. Klein.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 275</summary>

> Well, thank you very much. So as we had sort of said it, we're reviewing initially that the amount of time we've spent on this application, it was opened on May 2nd. We've had a consolidated set of hearings. I think we've had some very good discussions and conversations with the applicants, with the neighbors, with the abutters, with those who are likely to be impacted both by the construction and by this change to their neighborhood. But I hope that everyone sort of comes away from this with a sense that what the board is really looking to approve here is a project that is put forward by the Housing Corporation of Arlington to provide residences for both current and future residents of Arlington who don't have an opportunity to share in the benefits of living in our community and in our town. And I think that the package that has been proposed by the Housing Corporation of Arlington is a really strong package. I understand that they still have a ways to go in terms of funding, and we wish them the very best with that. I think that what we have come up with as a decision meets not only their requirements for providing a facility that they are able to actually construct and manage, but also serves to minimize the impact on the residents, both short-term and long-term, who currently are in this neighborhood and would like to really see their neighborhood continue to flourish in the way it has to date. So I very much look forward to providing my vote in favor of the comprehensive permit application with conditions.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 6</summary>

> Thank you, Mr. Klein. Mr. DuPont.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Roger Dupont - 127</summary>

> So I would just second what Mr. Klein had just said very comprehensively and eloquently, and add that I was really gratified in being part of this process. I think that all of the people involved, the applicant, all of the consultants on both sides, and the public, who I thought expressed their concerns in a way that were very constructive and very supportive, even given some of the concerns and doubts that they had about it. And I just really appreciated the collegiality and the collaborative nature of the process through all of this, and really would like to commend the other members of the board, as well as the other participants, as to the amount of attention and focus that they gave to the process.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 6</summary>

> Thank you, Mr. DuPont. Mr. Riccardelli.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Dan Ricardelli - 113</summary>

> Yes, you know, I'm happy to echo what the previous two speakers said as well, and I'm looking forward to, you know, voting for this, especially like a couple of you as a East Arlington resident, looking forward to having an all-affordable housing development on our side of town, and I don't know if many of you know this, but I'm actually, one of my projects in my day job is an all-affordable development that's also passive house. I know how hard it is to make these projects work, and I've been impressed with everyone who's been involved in this process, so I'm really looking forward to seeing it get built. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 6</summary>

> Thank you, Mr. Riccardelli. Mr. Holey.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Venket Holi - 117</summary>

> Yeah, I'm positive, and I'm going to vote yes to the project, and it's, you know, as mentioned by previous speakers, you know, this affordable housing is important for the town, for the state in general, and more so for the town, and all the units are affordable. That's a welcome. I don't think I've done or worked on a project where all the units are affordable, and it's well deserved. All the comments were addressed, you know, very, and with great, it's not just addressing the comments that went over and beyond in some of those, and that's very impressive of the team. So yes, great, good luck to the team, too, for this great project.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 80</summary>

> Thank you, Mr. Holey. Ms. Hoffman isn't here. Ms. Hoffman isn't here. I'd like to, we're now at the point where we're dealing with associate members who will not be in a position to vote on this, but who certainly are appropriately can comment on what they think about it. So, Mr. LeBlanc, I'm afraid you're going to end up being a non-voting member when we go down to the roll again, but you're still with us on this one.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Adam LeBlanc - 125</summary>

> Yes, I think everyone's kind of said a lot of the same thoughts that I've had on this project, you know, kind of in the same vein of Mr. Riccardelli. I'm over in East Arlington as well, kind of right down the street from this project, not that far, so it'd be really great to see what I think is a pretty well-designed project going up, you know, based on what we have, so it's really nice to see a nice, well-designed piece of affordable housing going up. It's kind of a rare feat in and around Boston, so it'd be great to see this go up, and if I was voting, I would be in favor of the proposal we have with the conditions.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 472</summary>

> Thank you, Mr. LeBlanc. So, that just leaves me. I think I agree with what almost every, well, with what everybody has said. I'd just like to underscore in some ways what a great place this is to have affordable housing. If you were looking at 15-minute cities, this is a five-minute city, and it's easy to get to the transportation, not just the 87 bus, but if you venture across the river, you can go to really get into the transportation system even more. There's shopping there. There's lots of ways of relating to the town, and I think it'll be a great addition to the town to have this there. I agree completely with the commendation of the constructiveness of the neighbors. There's been a lot of people participated early on, but some people stayed with us. They even imagined that we were building a relationship with them. I'd like to particularly call out Ms. McCartney, who honchoed the neighborhood letter that was submitted to us and who was there raising questions that we got answers to or we tried to get answers to and making the deliberations a lot better than they would have been without her participation and those of her neighbors that were also looking to her for leadership. It's been my experience in Forty Bees that even in the ones where there's a considerable amount of hostility and antagonism and feelings are high, and that isn't necessarily true here, but when people basically settle down to the public process, the public helps us through, and I think that every project that I've been on has been better because of the public participation, and I think that that's probably true here as well. And finally, somebody on our side who has not gotten mentioned yet but who should be mentioned is Sean Reardon, who did a great job of helping us through everything and dealing with all of the potential civil issues that he dealt with in a sensitive and a wise way, and I thought that if he can clip this out and put it on his website, I'd like to say it was great to deal with him again, and I look forward to a chance to doing that at some point in the future. So, like the rest of you, I will vote on this when I get the opportunity. But in order to have that opportunity, somebody has to move to approve. I will do that with the oversight from Mr. Haverty. I would move that the board approves the comprehensive permit with conditions for the application by the Housing Corporation of Arlington for their property at 10 Sunnyside Avenue in Arlington. So, Mr. Haverty, do we need to explicitly include the waivers in that motion, or should that be a separate motion?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Haverty - 24</summary>

> No, that can be part of the motion. I would just also reference with the changes discussed tonight. With the changes discussed this evening.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 46</summary>

> Is there a second?  Second. Seconded by Mr. DuPont. We'll call the roll. Mr. Klein?  Aye. Mr. DuPont? Aye. Mr. Ricardelli? Aye. Mr. Holy? Aye. And the chair votes aye. So, the application is approved. Mr. Haverty, what are the next steps after this?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Haverty - 23</summary>

> It'll be filed. You've got to finish making the corrections discussed tonight, and then it has to be filed with the town clerk.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 100</summary>

> Okay. So, we will undertake to do that. We need to get it signed as well? Yes, once you've made the changes. Right. Okay. Well, we will endeavor to do that and get that filed. And so, I think the one thing that I didn't have a chance to do is thank you for your participation. Mr. Haverty, particularly, who's always been at our side on these things, and I have no idea how we'd handle the 40B process without him. And so, thank you for you all for the thought and wisdom that you brought to bear from this.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Adjournment</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 48</summary>

> So, we're at the point where we're ready to say goodbye to one another. But I wonder if there's some other announcements that might be made now in terms of our future schedule and where we're going next. Mr. Klein, do you have something to say about that?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Christian Klein - 344</summary>

> So, we do have a hearing scheduled for August 26th. There are five items on the agenda. We currently have two members who are unavailable for that date. So, we do have just five who are available that night. And as I had spoken to Mr. Hanlon earlier, there's a possibility that his availability might be difficult. So, I'm going to go ahead and talk to Colleen tomorrow about the possibility of another date, whether that might make more sense for us, and then reach out to the applicants and explain the situation and see what they would prefer to do. Because it may just be that we only have four members present, and all that means is that all four members do need to vote in favor in order for something to be accepted. And some applicants may be willing to do that because of the timing issues, but others may not want to do so. But the following week, October 3rd, we do have a hearing that evening. It is an appeal to decision of the building inspector in regards to 106 Mount Vernon Street. So, we'll be getting more information out on that. And then, working with Colleen earlier today, there's going to be another hearing at the end of the month, at the end of October. So, those are our upcoming dates. But we won't have any more comprehensive permit dates, at least knock on wood for the near future. I have not heard of any other sites that are pending. And with the start of construction of 1021-1027, the board now has another, does have a safe harbor provision that it can forward in discussion with the planning department. So, we'll have to look into that. But otherwise, we are back to our regular business. But to echo what Mr. Hanlon said again, you know, many, many thanks to Paul Aberdee again for all his assistance in helping us for this now fourth set of hearings on comprehensive permits. So, I appreciate all of his efforts on our behalf.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Patrick Hanlon - 289</summary>

> Absolutely. Christian, I just wanted to add on the 26th, I'm going to be out in the Worcester area in the afternoon. Okay. So, it could be difficult for me to get back. Okay. I don't know. I mean, if we only had three people, but people had I'm not sure. I'm not sure if that's scheduled. What would happen. To that. Would we just not hold a hearing or. We would need to. I would need to talk to council and coordinate on. How exactly we would do that. I can make best efforts. I just don't know what that day looks like. And it's going to be. I don't know. What we were going to do that day is gathered enough of us together to move to continue all the cases to say October 3rd or whenever the, the next opportunity would be. I'm sure that. I mean, I could just. Call in on a phone and. And Steve. Stay for that long, even if I were. If I were in somebody's hotel room. Hospital room. So. Yeah. I have nothing further. All right then. So we've gotten through this. And thank you again for all of you. We can see where we're going, going forward. I should add that we have two outstanding decisions that need to be presented to the board and adopted. To let some people go forward. And I would like to invite a motion to adjourn. And at that point, I'd invite a motion to adjourn. No move. Mr. Chair. Mr. Klein. Second. Mr. We'll go through the role. Mr. Klein. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Thank you. Thank you. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night.
</details></details>