### Arlington Zoning Board of Appeals - [August 1, 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXmFjO_Fuic)

<details><summary>Remote Participation</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 274</summary>

> This is an open meeting. Of the Arlington zoning board of appeals. Being conducted remotely consistent with an act making appropriations for the fiscal year, 2023. To provide for a whole bunch of things. Which I'm not going to read to you tonight. The public bodies may continue to hold meetings remotely without a quorum of the public body physically present. At a meeting location. So long as they provide adequate alternative access. To a remote meetings. Public bodies may meet remotely. So that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting. And opportunity for public participation will be provided by us. During the public comment period. For this meeting, the Arlington zoning board of appeals has convened a video conference via the zoom application with online and telephone access. As listed on the agenda posted on the town's website. Identifying how the public may join. This meeting is being recorded and it will be broadcast by ACMI. Please be aware that attendees are participating by a variety of means. Some attendees are participating by video conference, others by computer. Audio or by telephone. Accordingly, please be aware that other folks may be able to see you. Your screen name or another identifier. Please take care not to share any personal information. Anything you broadcast may be captured by the recording. We ask that you please maintain decorum during the meeting, including displaying. And appropriate background. All supporting materials that have been provided. Members of this body are available on the meetings agenda or the town's website. Unless otherwise noted, the public is encouraged to follow along, using the posted agenda.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Comprehensive Permit - 10 Sunnyside Avenue</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 507</summary>

> There's only one matter on our agenda tonight. A continuation of the public hearing. On the request for a comprehensive permit. So we're not going to turn to that. I'm going to be a little bit more specific about the purpose of this meeting. As I've discussed, I've usually begun these sessions by. Observing that there'll be many other sessions down the road. And you'll have lots and lots of time to. Address the various matters that come up. Now, however, we're approaching the end of the road. And tonight will be the last session that's devoted generally to developing the factual record of this case. Next. The public hearing will begin at the end of the next meeting. The board will have the opportunity to draft comprehensive permit. Although it may be necessary to resolve a few outstanding issues. Barring unforeseen circumstances, we'll close the public hearing in this case at the end of that meeting. The record will remain open for written comments until the hearing is closed. Once the hearing is closed, the board will begin to do. Deliberations phase. It cannot receive any new information from the applicant. It will not receive any written comments. It will of course, include. Discuss the deliberations with Mr. Havarty. Who has our legal advisor is the principal draftsman of the board's decision. Legally, the board is required to resent, render a decision within 40 days of the closing of the public hearing. If in fact we close on August the 15th. Our decision will be due no later than Sunday, September 24th. The board will have the opportunity to review the proposed amendments. We'll have a chance to present them to Mr. Havarty. We'll have a chance to present them to our consultant, Sean Reardon, whom we. Introduced himself earlier. Primarily on the civil aspects of the proposal. Those comments are in the record as well as the applicant submissions. Responding to them. And a number of updated plans and other documents. I've asked Mr. Reardon to provide an overview and touch on several specific comments that might benefit from discussion tonight. We'll have a chance to review the proposed amendments. Presumably as sort of the mistress of ceremonies for the team response you described before. And we'll again, focus on the matters that are important to discuss. At this hearing. And also on my understanding is that there are a number of. There's a new waiver list that has been provided. And Ms. Economy wishes to describe that to the board. As well as some additional information that. I'm not aware of at this time. So with that, I'll turn it over to you. Thank you. And with the opening presentations, the board will. The floor will be open to questions and comments by the board. After that, the usual public hearing. Followed by board comments again, and questions going into the last meeting. And then I anticipate that we'll continue. This hearing to August 15th. And with all that. Let me turn to Sean.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Sean Reardon - 1385</summary>

> Okay. The first time I've ever heard it referred to as that, but I'll do my best. So again, my name is Sean Reardon. I'm the board's consultant, review consultant on matters related to sort of the technical features of the design and traffic related matters. What we did is we reviewed all the submittals and prepared a comment letter. To the commission. And then we sent that letter to the commission. And then we sent that letter to the board. Moving forward so that they don't get lost before. This project goes to say a building permit or something like that. So what we did is we listed all our comments and, and all of those comments. We felt were addressable. Without compromising the project or creating any fundamental changes in the project. So really they're just. They're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're just there for the purposes of the board's review. And we didn't see anything before building permit submission. So for the purposes of the board's review. We didn't see anything that. Constituted. A level of concern that would warrant. Sort of delaying any closure of the, of the. Of the public hearing if they chose to do so. But some of the, the main points were. Just to go through the. The, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the significant concerns. And that has to do with the drain line. That's. That the project ties into and relies on for discharging its runoff. It's a little bit unclear as to. Where the drain line ends. And what it serves and how it gets. To the public way right now, the. The point of connection is a manhole that exists on an adjacent property. It's a public manhole. The applicant provided some record drawings from the. The engineering department that showed it's it's part of the town's drainage infrastructure. So what we're presuming is they have, the town has prescriptive rights for it. That. If there's no formal easement, certainly there's there's rights that are granted just by it being there for so long. So the concern is that. It does show that drain line extending to provide service to the parcel behind the development parcel. And the record information shows the drain going up the adjacent property, but there's. The survey drawing for the project doesn't show that pipe. So our concern is as a pipe that heads towards the project site. And then if it does, there's really no significant hurdle for. Diverting the pipe around their building. The project has. You know, at least five or six feet on either side of the building. So there's more than enough room to divert a drain line. If they needed to. Going on. What we, and we hit on this at the last hearing was about the. Sort of the lack of detail on sort of the construction management methodologies and. You know how they're going to deal with building such a. Not a large building, but a building that comprises most of the site. And I thought the applicants. You know, they had a lot of time and a lot of memory about what they plan to do and how they plan to handle those things. And the project is committed to doing a construction management plan as part of the building permit filing. I thought that was appropriate in one of the. The big distinctions between. This site in the prior project that. We assisted on, on mass av is. This, this road is a very, very low volume road. So certainly none of the same concerns that we have. In the previous project. The methodology described by the applicants representative seemed appropriate and don't see any reason why that wasn't those, the issues that we thought about were aren't solvable. Going on. We had some concern about. You know how the walls would be demolished and managed, given that they retain slopes on the. On the abutting parcels. The construction manager also. You know, there was a lot of discussion about whether or not to do that. That seemed appropriate. We just, in each case, we just recommended the condition and the board's decision that just. You know, holds the project to, to doing those things before. Any building permit. It gets issued. You. Emergency vehicles were something we looked at too. Again, in this case, a little bit different than 10, 10 mass or 10 25 mass. And again, low volume street it's on. So it's nothing that we saw that would sort of represent a, a sort of a prohibitive. Condition to, to the fire department. Adequately accessing the site. Also both of the. The property on all three sides. It has either parking or open area. So really easy to access from adjacent process. If they needed to. Okay. What else is going on?  We talked about. A concern for. Or at least a little bit better understanding of how. Loading and unloading would happen at the site, given that. There's really no street side parking. And no. I don't think it's unreasonable that most of that could happen in street side. I'm sure that street is, is pretty used to. People queuing in it temporarily, either to get service at the, the, the prior establishment that was here or the adjacent one. So I don't think it's unreasonable to expect that whatever. The parking lot is going to be used for parking. And then the adjacent one is going to be used for loading and unloading. And then the adjacent one is going to be used for parking. So it's not unreasonable to go downtown and look for a temporary lane closure or something like that. Which again, because of the low volumes on sun, sunny side. I don't think that would be a problem either. Okay. Just trying to go through. We talked a little bit briefly about the garage door and its placement relative to the street. So we noticed on the plan that the garage door was close to the edge of the layout line or edge of the edge of the property line, which would force that if a car had to stop at the door. It would likely it's rear end would likely be in the street. And so we thought it was appropriate to have a garage door placed relative to the street. Because of the low volumes in the road. And I think in a prior conversation, the applicant was telling us that. The door placement was in response to some prior concerns about not creating. Sort of an alcove where people could hide. So we thought it was appropriate that. You know, that, that they take the measures that they did with us. Door was closer to the street there by preventing. That from happening. We asked for some information about. Water and sewer demands. The applicant provided some of that. We haven't reviewed it all, but we anticipate it's going to be fine. There was some minor changes to sewer routing and, and drain routing that we asked, which were, I think we're cleaned up. And we're going to review that. Oh, and we also were provided some additional. Stormwater analysis. That was probably the bigger change. In our comment letter. We were struggling a bit with the, the infiltration system. That was being proposed underneath the building. Traditionally infiltration systems aren't. You know, they're they're a little bit different than what we're used to seeing. So. In this case, we looked back at some of the old historical photos that showed the site was completely paved back in 2019. So we suggested to the applicant that they consider revising their analysis to reflect that. And thereby the project would actually result in a net decrease in impervious surface. So the, the need for that whole infiltration. Infiltration system went away. And the, the drawings now reflect that. Um, I think aside from some minor comments. Related to sort of references to drawings and some elevations. Um, I think it's fair to say that this is a project that we're going to continue. And that any outstanding items can certainly be handled in a, in a condition of approval.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 14</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Sean. This. This is your time to. Thank you. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mary Winstanley O'Connor - 385</summary>

> Thank you. First of all, I want to thank the zoning board for their work on this project. Um, I want to thank the city council for their support and for Mr. Redden. Mr. Hanlon's taking the time to review it with the team. And I want to thank the zoning board for their work on this project. Uh, let me say that. You have a number of submissions that Rochelle and. Uh, Nick and Jeff will go over, but I wanted to, uh, review a couple of things. Um, the first is that the development is 100% affordable and is public funds. There is no extra money for my client to do anything outside the project. The four corners of the project. This is not your typical. A 40 B where we have. 15% of the units that are affordable and the rest market rate. So that is not a possibility here. Um, The second thing is that the parking space requirement is one space per unit. Uh, under the bylaw. Uh, the waiver list, you have a revised waiver list. And that waiver list, um, primarily it was revised for two reasons. One to show that the parking space requirement is one space per unit under the bylaw. Uh, and I had had 1.5 in there. From under the old, uh, bylaw. The other thing is I did put a waiver request in there. Um, to waive the requirement for the storm. Um, And I put that in there. Um, I really don't think that it needs to be a waiver because my reading. Of the Arlington stormwater bylaw from April of 2022. Is that this project is exempt from it. And I will tell you why. Um, the bylaw requires. Uh, that. A project comply. Uh, a new development. Um, and, um, what is actually happening here is there is an increase. Substantially in previous space here. So I do not think that the bylaw, uh, the stormwater bylaw applies here. Uh, but we have put that waiver in there just in case. So I would turn this over now. Um, to Rochelle. Um, to review the submissions, the submissions address. Um, the commission's comments in the peer review, as well as the board's questions. Over the past couple of years. Rochelle.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rochelle - 327</summary>

> Thank you, Mary. Um, I was specifically going to address a couple of. Questions that had come up. Um, pre prior about shadow study and. Um, height Delta. Shall I start there? Or should we continue to address? Um, Whatever you think. best. Go right ahead. All right. I'll share screen. With regard to the question of tabulating data over the year for the shadow, the solar exposure on 243 Michael Street, we had done analysis. So what you're seeing here is the existing condition. And in the graph over on the right, you'll see on the x-axis are the months. And on the y-axis is monthly incident solar radiation yielding 1490 kilowatt hours per square meter year. And then with the proposed development, you'll see that number decreased to 1486, which represents overall change of less than .003%. And there's a bit of a further breakdown if that helps over to the right. Just addressing around the months because the area of concern was the solstice. So we're looking from November to January. And we're really not seeing there's really no effect on the other months. So that's the description of existing to new. We had a question on the delta between the building that is being proposed and 27 Broadway. With 27 Broadway, we'd like to note that the height is estimated based on observation. We're estimating approximately 18.8. And then lastly, there was a question about the single egress from the second floor. Let show this again. The second floor roof deck, there's a single egress out to the community room. We just want to point out that during our presentation to town officials, we had not received any, you know, contrary feedback to that proposal. And in reviewing the code, it's compliant. We did on recommendation of the board reach out to ISD to get a confirmation. We're still awaiting a response. We haven't heard back yet. But we have initiated that discussion.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 23</summary>

> Anything else, Rochelle? I think that will be it from you, Teal. I'm going to invite Jeffrey to speak about the site issues.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Jeffrey Pilot - 302</summary>

> Okay. Sure. Jeffrey Pilot, Sammy Otis, consultants for the civil engineer on the project. Sean covered the main comments that we've been working with him over the past week or so. Over the past week or so. We've done a site. We've had Matt from our team do a site observation on the sewer appears that is a eight inch and not a six inch main out in the street. And it's flowing at about one third. Our calculations show that it's about 2% of the flow that's going in there. So we should be good on capacity. The MEP provided the the water and sewer calcs from the site. Let's see what other major items. The drainage system, we've removed the infiltration system. Change that mini dry well to a solid cover regraded that those both those fighting areas so there's no ponding issues, potential ponding issues and the within the garage. And then, just like Mary said, you know, we've gone through the bylaw, and it due to the decrease in impervious area, it does not appear that we trigger the stormwater permit. However, we've included the waiver request, just in case of if the town engineer was requesting it. That's included with the package. There's photos and videos of both that catch basin and the sewer manhole as part of the package. The catch basin does show all three connections as the two on the survey and then the one that wraps around the rear of the building. And the, the sewer shows that trough, and the flow going through it on a weekend. Assuming that's a, that's a good time to capture that. I think that captures everything from the peer review letter. Anything else that Sean can think of, willing to answer any questions at the moment.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Sean Reardon - 247</summary>

> Mr. Chair, if I could ask a couple quick questions. Mr. Reardon. So thanks Jeff, I appreciate that work. Now, the one third vote, I didn't see all of the documentation you referenced yet, I looked through most of the stuff, but what time of day was that? Do you recall? I'd have to ask Matt, he's on the call. All right. And then was there any visual evidence of surcharge in that structure at all? Not from the photos, no. Okay. And then the drain line that you referenced, you said so, you did find a third pipe in there heading up the, that side lot? Correct. We have the 10 inch PVC that's heading towards our site that we're proposing to connect into. And then we have the 10 inch that wraps around the rear of the property, which appears to connect to what a butters garage, which is another 10 inch. And then we have the that's leaving the system and then ultimately discharging to a bank out on Sunnyside Avenue. Okay. So that addresses my biggest concern, which was, is that drain line that's extending onto your property serving anybody else?  And based on what you just said, I doubt it is. So that's good. Thank you. I did verify from the timing, the timestamp on the photographs, but I believe I was there about between 4 and 5 PM on Sunday when I popped the two manhole covers off. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 48</summary>

> Thanks, Matt. Sean, do you have anything else? Nope. So Connor, is there anything else that you want your team to cover? Not at this point. Great. So it's time for board comments. Is there anybody on the board? Any questions or comments on what you've just heard?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Dupont - 128</summary>

> Mr. Chairman, Mr. DuPont. So as I was looking through this response this afternoon, I noted that at least in one place, there was a reference to the layout of the parking spaces. And I believe Mr. Reardon had suggested spaces being redesigned. And I just wanted to understand a little bit better about what that entails. And is that just something where there can just be some agreement later on down the line and those things are easily tended to? Or is that something that is a major concern now? I know it wasn't raised when Mr. Reardon just went through his summary. But I just want to know, are those references to parking spaces something that are sort of easily handled in a matter of course?
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 110</summary>

> I think that's an accurate way to put it. And we actually suggested a means to doing so. And just to help understand, there's like two or three spaces in the garage that lack the sort of ideal access to them. So our solution or a suggested consideration is to just mark that as compact spaces. So the shortcomings of the layout are only really a problem for larger vehicles. If you designate them as compact spaces, I think they probably work just fine. There are other potential solutions. They could reduce striping or make a few changes, none of which is sort of going to reverberate through the development.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Dupont - 54</summary>

> Okay, thanks. That's what it sounded like. I just wanted to double check. Correct. So Mr. Reardon, if we had to write a condition or in some other way make sure that this is paid attention to at the building permit stage, what would that condition say? I'm actually surprised they didn't recommend one.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 15</summary>

> I don't know if you could just give me a minute to think about that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Dupont - 154</summary>

> Okay, we'll come back to it. We'll come back. I think it's as simple as saying you could make them designate them as compact spaces or otherwise redesign them. Because there are opportunities, whether it's with the layout of the handicap spaces or there are. And if, for example, during the course of design their structure layout changes, we would expect the garage layout to change a little bit during the course of design. I think as long as we specify how many spaces are required and maybe give them a little bit of leeway or otherwise direct them to use compact spaces for spaces that don't meet the standard dimensions in the town, we could address that. So Mr. O'Connor, I'm not quite sure who to ask what you've been thinking about that, whether that's you, Jeffrey, or whether Rochelle. I think that that's you, Teal. Nick, do you want to address that?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Nick - 117</summary>

> Sure. I mean, I don't think there's honestly much more to say beyond what Sean has already articulated, which is that we'll continue to refine the parking plan. It's absolutely sort of part and parcel of continuing to develop the design and we can easily make a compact space adjustment or we'll continue to be shifting columns around as we coordinate with our structural engineer, that sort of thing. So providing a little bit of a hammerhead at the end of the drive aisle there to facilitate back out for those end spaces is really not an issue, but I think we're probably flexible on language for a condition that would make sure that that takes place.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 17</summary>

> Mr. Devont, anything else? No, thank you. Does anyone else have any questions or comments on this?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Riccardelli - 103</summary>

> Mr. Chair. I'd just like to ask a question about the stormwater management system. So I understand sounds like it's not required to have the infiltration system, which is certainly a benefit for the project in terms of not having to install that, but I just wanted to ask Mr. Reardon or the applicant, has there been any study done to make sure that without that infiltration system, the stormwater system can handle the 100-year or what we're obviously finding is that those 100-year floods happen more than every 100 years, so the capacity of storms that we're more used to seeing now?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Reardon - 231</summary>

> Yeah, I think the best way to address that is to say that the project's going to result in a net reduction of runoff from the site. So regardless of what the outcomes are, regardless of what the analysis is, it's always going to be less than what the site currently sees. Another important factor is the site is currently an at-grade lot with an industrial use. It's going to be switched to almost a completely covered roof. So from a water quality standpoint, the quality of runoff coming off the site is going to go up astronomically. So you're going to go from a relatively sediment-laden, potentially pollutant-laden runoff to something that's principally clean and basically doesn't even touch the ground. So just a significant net benefit in both cases. And we've confirmed with our calculations that the system is not going to surcharge above any of the rims on the 100-year storm and that we do have a reduced peak flow for the 100-year in the post-condition. And if I can add one other minor detail, so this is what's nice is we're right near A.Y. Brook. So the run of storm drain is pretty short until it gets to an outfall. So it's only a few hundred feet and a couple sections of catch basin. So wouldn't expect it to be any sort of complication or collateral damage.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 12</summary>

> Great, thank you so much. Anybody else? Mr. Chair?  Mr. Kline?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Klein - 116</summary>

> First, I wanted to thank the applicant for the additional information on the solar studies and for pursuing the egress question with Inspectional Services. I do appreciate you looking into those matters. I did have a couple questions on the waiver request. So one of them is in regards to the size of the parking spaces and it's a request to permit more than 20 percent of spaces to be sized for compact cars. And I'm wondering, is the applicant going to provide an upper bound for that or is the request to leave that open-ended? I think at this point to leave that open-ended. So that potentially 100 percent of the spaces could be compact?
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 192</summary>

> No, we would not be doing that, I can say that. But at this point, I don't know, Nick, are you prepared to make a suggestion of the division between compact and regular size spaces? Not specifically. I mean, I think to maybe, you know, to speak to the point that we were just discussing a minute ago, you know, we have to have ongoing, you know, design coordination conversations with our engineers about structural layout, building layout, you know, accessibility clearances, all those types of things. And, you know, having a little bit of flexibility in the parking plan is one of the ways that we're going to be able to meet all of those underlying requirements as the design progresses on a very tight site. So I feel like it might be a little bit premature for me to throw a number right out there. I agree with Mary, I don't think the plan is to do 100 percent compact spaces. We want to provide, you know, as functional a parking area as possible. But I don't think I'm prepared to throw out a specific number right off the cuff.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Klein - 90</summary>

> Because I have a similar question for the following one, which is about the dry vial width and the reduction and the request is just for a reduction in the dry vial size. And again, it doesn't have a bound. I'm just a little leery about, you know, issuing a comprehensive permit where those are, you know, very open questions as to what the bounds of those are. If you could make a proposal in two weeks at the meeting on the 15th, I think that would be helpful. Sure.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 6</summary>

> Thank you. Mr. Klein, anything else?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Klein - 104</summary>

> So just anywhere else, like there's another one about parking lot setbacks, landscaping and screening. Obviously the parking is all within the building. So I don't think that that's really a major issue. And then the fees and charges, I don't know, we haven't really discussed that question yet. I don't recall what the board had done specifically last time we had done a project that had come to us from the housing corporation. So I think we should discuss that question at some point, but it does not need to be now. Ms. O'Connor, can you find out what happened in previous occasions?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mary O'Connor - 19</summary>

> I can look at the one in Downing Square and Broadway and see. So that would be very helpful.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 14</summary>

> Klein? I'm all set. Is there anybody else who wishes to, has any questions?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Dupont - 124</summary>

> Mr. Chairman. Mr. DuPont. So this is another question for Sean, and I think it's probably a quick answer, but I know that in number four, there was a site prep and erosion control, and there was the question raised about when retaining walls were removed next to budding properties. And the response was that there would be a detail in the construction management plan to address that. And I just wanted to know, because I'm not familiar with it, is that, again, something that's sort of technologically fairly standard to address, where if you're going to take something out that's holding back earth, that you have something that can easily be put in temporarily until the permanent structures for retaining are in place?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mary O'Connnor - 102</summary>

> The easy is probably subject to interpretation, but there are methods. But in this case, and I think the applicant addressed at the last hearing, is they anticipate having a conversation with each of their butters. Because frankly, I don't see a way where they're going to be able to remove those walls without at least a short-term sort of occupation of the abutting parcel. But I think the response that they gave that the solution has to be worked out in sort of coordination with the abutters, and they plan to do so, was exactly what I had hoped to hear.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Dupont - 70</summary>

> And I guess the follow-up to that is that, and how does that get monitored then? Is that part of the construction management plan, where reference will be made to the fact that conversations have been made, have been had, and that agreements have been reached with regard to how that happens? I guess it just seems like one of those details that's a little bit squishing at the moment.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mary O'Connnor - 200</summary>

> Yeah, I would think that it's something that each of the landowners needs to work out independent of the board, that the board doesn't even necessarily need to play a role in that. can speak to that but you know typically we would we would leave that up to the the landowner to work out and you know the the more cooperation they get from their landowner the easier the effort's going to be so you know if they get no cooperation from the landowner then they might have to drive piles or something like that. The the real distinction is is there are solutions that can work for a very short period of time while they're constructing the new wall that that would suffice but wouldn't suit a long-term application so I think there are a lot of ways to skin that cat. Certainly the easiest way would be to get some cooperation from the landowner, do some temporary grading, construct whatever wall system the building is proposing and then replace the grade. So I don't think this is going to be a sort of a heavy lift but it depends on the level of cooperation they can get.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 670</summary>

> Okay thanks. Thank you. Is there anything else? All right well as it happens I had a whole bunch of questions to ask and my colleagues have asked all of them and so I'm going to pass. So it's time to open the public hearing. I appreciate the presentations from both Mr. Reardon and from the applicant. Tonight's hearing will be open to public comment and I wanted to review some of the ground rules that I can recognize so many names here that you've all heard before. Public questions and comment will only be taken as it relates to the matter at hand and should be directed to the board for the purpose of informing our decision. Due to previously demonstrated interest in this project and to provide an orderly float at the meeting the chair strongly encourages individual public speakers to limit their comments and use their time provided to comment related solely to the topics that are discussed at this hearing. I will say that I'll be pretty tolerant about that because this is your last chance on a lot of issues and so it may very well be that there are some things that have come up at other times that you wish to say something more about. We will remember and we'll review a transcript of what you said before but it's not going to be quite as strict a focus on Mr. Reardon's report and the other things that we've discussed as we might otherwise do if we were having lots more meetings. The chair will first ask members of the public who have previously identified themselves by logging in through Zoom who wish to speak to digitally raise their hand using the raise hand button in the participants tab in the Zoom application. You'll be called upon by the meeting host. You may unmute yourself. You'll be asked to give your name and address for the record and you will be given up to five minutes for your questions and comments. All questions are to be addressed through the chair. Remember to speak clearly concisely and in a way that helps generate an accurate record of the meeting. Those calling in by phone please dial star nine to indicate that you'd like to speak and when you called on you may unmute your line. Please identify yourself by name and address for the record and from there on follow the same rules I just said for people who are using their computer. Once all questions and comments have been addressed or we've reached let's see the hour let's say of 9 15 the public comment period for this evening's hearing will be closed. As noted previously there are multiple hearings scheduled for this project but not so many now and each hearing will have an opportunity for public comment. The next hearing will be focused a lot on the kinds of questions we've been hearing before about what would be in a condition. I should stress that the fact that we talk about that doesn't necessarily say that the board will adopt any of these conditions or not make it up themselves when they get into the deliberation section nor does it necessarily mean that we'll grant the comprehensive permit. This is a way of working it all free and of whatever errors we can and trying to come up with the best conditioned resolution of the of the case that we can. The board and applicant and staff will do our best to show the documents being discussed and if you'd like a specific document to be displayed during your comment please ask us to do so and we'll do our best to accommodate your request. Now that really means Miss Raulston would do her best because my best would be totally unavailing but she's really good at that. So with all that the public comment period is open. Is there anyone who wishes to address the application?  Ms. Chaplin welcome.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Monique Chaplin - 92</summary>

> Thank you Mr. Chairman. Monique Chaplin 35 Michael Street. First I just want to thank folks for doing the deeper dive of the shade study. That was very reassuring. I'm primarily speaking to just make sure that the zoning board and the housing corporation received the email sent by the concerned abutters of Michael Street. We sent that yesterday and hard copy letters will be arriving via U.S. Post in the next couple of days outlining our concerns and a few suggestions that we had that we hope you'll consider. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 92</summary>

> Thank you Ms. Chaplin. I actually haven't seen that yet so I will be certainly on the lookout for it and I'm sure that the applicant will be as well and we can take up those matters when we get back together. Is there anybody else who wishes to address the application? Mr. Allmond. No well actually I'm sorry. If you waited Mr. Allmond you were sort of beaten out a little bit by Mr. or Ms. someone whose phone number ends in 644 so let me try calling on that person.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Moore - 154</summary>

> Yes thank you Mr. Chair. Steve Moore Piedmont Street. I've had to join you by phone tonight as opposed to video and my question is just a touch back to a question that I asked at a number of hearings ago or maybe it was even the last one about has there been any thoughts that the applicant has relative to providing irrigation to the public street shade trees that are going to lie in the sidewalk on sunny side there in front of the village? Oh I can answer that. We will not be doing that. There is no funds in this project to do that to provide irrigation at all. And I'll add that but we're obviously committed to keeping all the trees alive so we'll find methods that work within our budget. So the stress is just on the irrigation part. Watering the trees is something that you have to do?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 87</summary>

> Yes. Well our own irrigation on our property gets the street trees. Maybe I've spoken out of line if that's our obligation or not. If the city if the town would normally be supporting that. The town actually regrets for all residential property owners the town requests that the street trees the ones that are in front of that are on the right away in front are watered at least and maintained that way by residents. It's a standard sort of thing. Is that true Mr. Moore?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Moore - 281</summary>

> Yes yes thank you Mr. Chair. That's exactly right and for public street trees the town provides what's called gator bags around the trunks of trees that it makes watering pretty simple in terms of just providing water into the bag once a week. So I'm hoping there'd be some commitment to that because I think the growth of trees in this area will greatly enhance the building and I know that they're adding a bunch of their own plantings which is great but the street trees will help I don't know modify soften the transition between the building and the street on what amounts to is a pretty tight piece of property there in terms of the street width. So I would encourage that watering plant to be included in terms of the street trees. I am pointing out though that when we make installs around town now we are suggesting irrigation lines. Now I understand that as was clearly said there's no funds in the budget for that but helping with the watering would be good. My second question is just kind of a point of information. It's not really a question. I joined this meeting late and I apologize since you've already spoken to this because when I came in you were talking about the storm water and mitigation plan and such and some changes which have made I believe to deal with parking spaces under the building. Could the applicant quickly refresh my memory as to what's going to be done with the storm water from the roof and such? Is it going to be put into a dry well sort of arrangement or something else? Jeff?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Jeff - 339</summary>

> Sure it's going to be conveyed from the site. First it's going to be pre-treated before it gets to a dry well and then it discharges to the abutting drainage system that's the municipal system. The storm water? Correct. It's roof water so it's considered clean. Therefore and also that we don't trigger the storm water permit and we do have a reduction in purpose area and a reduction in peak overall peak flow and therefore it's just going to connect into the municipal drainage system. Okay and Mr. Chair the drainage system is designed and I think Mr. Rigodelli asked this question already just it's designed to deal with the maximum flow of the 100-year storm and for the 100-year storm and with the LWIPA close by was NOAA the latest NOAA data used or the old storm totals? It's based on a 24-hour storm event. I believe it's 5-7. I know there's some newer storm data that is now being used for developments around town which developers are utilizing which basically is our higher inflow. You know what rain data was used for this project? I'll have to check with my office but I believe it's the latest. It's actually in the initial submission when it begins to discuss it's the NOAA something or other either plus or plus plus I think the intention is to meet was to meet what is currently being requested of the conservation commission even though they are not actually involved in this project. But there was some question in my mind about whether it had enough pluses so but if the applicant can look at that and just make sure what it is if I can easily offline to look up and find out how many pluses there's supposed to be I can look at the the last 40b that we did when this issue came up and I've conveniently forgot then just the way I'm forgetting now. Okay thank you Mr. Chair that's helpful. We'll take a look. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 81</summary>

> So there was Mr. Moore his hand will come down in a second. I'm trying to find the person who wished to speak before. Is there anyone on the line who wants to address this application? All right seeing not going once going twice the public hearing is closed. These is there anything further that anyone on the board wants to raise or anybody or the applicant if there's something that has come up that causes you some concern? Mr. Hammond
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Hammond - 93</summary>

> I just wanted to answer Mr. Klein's question about the drive by a width just to cross that off the list for next time. As I understand that the zoning requirement is for 24 feet as drawn we have a little bit less than 23 feet and I think we would request a waiver for 22 feet at the minimum and that aligns with other municipal zoning codes in the greater Boston area for interior structured parking. We found that to be a functional width in this application. I appreciate that thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mr. Riccardelli - 73</summary>

> All right Mr. Chair may I ask one follow-up question? Yes Mr. Riccardelli. Just speaking about the parking and you know I think this is new so I just wanted to ask but I think that recently there's been guidance for electric parking charging stations to have accessibility requirements which are ADA not 521 CMR. So just wondering if the applicant is planning to include those with whatever charge spaces are being provided?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Mary? - 149</summary>

> Are you saying that you think that there are accessibility requirements in excess of what's called for in MAAB? That's right yeah so you know previously we would provide accessible parking spaces and then electric charging spaces and they wouldn't overlap because it would be restrictive. So if someone needed an accessible space and also a charging station they wouldn't have an option. So we did I don't know if you recall but we did submit an earlier plan at one of the previous hearings showing our intended locations for the EV charging stations some of which do serve those accessible spaces in the lower leg of the parking. So that's absolutely our intention to balance you know the number of EV charging spaces that we have with the number of accessible spaces that we have and make sure that there's you know equitable service being provided to everyone.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 761</summary>

> Excellent okay thank you. Was there anything else? All right seeing none I'd like to before closing and all enjoying the rest of our evening I'd like to talk a bit about deliberation dates and these are not actually these are not actually going to this is sort of an administrative. Actually let's do this the other way around because the applicant doesn't is not going to be here for a deliberation if we can't they take any more input from the applicant and so the question about figuring out the right dates for it are not really matters that they and their team need to need to stand by and discuss it unless they they would like to because we're such charming people. So at this point the chair at this point the chair will entertain a motion to consider the hearing to continue this hearing to a date certain of April not April August 15 2023 at 7 30 p.m or as soon thereafter as the matter may be heard. So moved Mr. Chair. Moved by Mr. Klein is is it a second? Second. Seconded by Mr. DuPont to a roll call Mr. Klein. Mr. Klein. Aye. Mr. DuPont. Aye. Mr. Ricardelli. Aye. Mr. Holy. Aye. Ms. Hoffman. Aye. Mr. LeBlanc. Aye. Okay so this this case has continued until then and I look forward to to seeing you all again in what what I'm hoping is is our our our last last fling and so those of you who would like to stay on the line can but I'm especially interested in holding on to Mr. Haverdy and the members of the board. The we have to be finished as I said earlier by the 24th and as a practical matter we're not going to want to go up to I mean that's a Sunday so that really means the 21st which is a Thursday or maybe the 19th which is the which which is a Tuesday. The 12th we've reserved as one day for the as one day for the deliberation and I would like to propose to you if you're able to do it meeting the day after Labor Day on the 5th. That puts us in a situation where I'm hoping that we can maybe can get done in one day but but especially in two and if anything really comes up it still gives us plenty of time to get our act together have maybe as we did last time one hour fixing up the whatever happens at the end where where it takes some extra time to do that whereas starting on the 12th and then going for the 19th or maybe invading going to a Thursday runs the risk that we have to scramble at the end which I I think we we'd like to avoid. So I wanted to see if a schedule of the meeting on the 5th with the thought that we carry over to the 12th if necessary whether that whether that is possible for you all. Mr. Haverty I mean I'm free both the 5th and the 12th. Great. Members of the board? Those both work for me. Me too. Me as well. Ms. Hoffman that work for you? Yes. All right so let's Ms. Raulston if we can schedule those and do whatever we need to do to get the word out and on to the website and so forth that's that's where we'll go. Chaplain the hearing's over but but this is all a friendly gathering right now so if you'd like to chat please do. Thank you. I just had a quick question whether these upcoming meetings are ones that the public are also invited to. Oh yes the public is always invited but you'll be silent partners at the ones in September. As I said earlier we can't take any additional input from anybody. We can't even turn to the applicant on something and say is that acceptable to you. We all it all has to be based on the hearings what we've done so far and what we do on on the 15th but these are all public meetings so but they will be public meetings without public comment. Including the 15th? No no the 15th I was just talking about the ones in September. The 15th is still the hearing is going and that'll be treated in exactly the same way that the meeting today. and all the other ones that you've participated in. Great, thank you so much. You're welcome.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Adjournment</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Pat Hamlin - 240</summary>

> All right, I guess we're now at the point where if there's not, is there anything else that anyone wishes to bring up before we do an adjournment? So, Mr. Chairman, I think it would be helpful if I can get you a draft decision by the 8th, so we have it a week in advance of the next hearing. Yes. So that will be my goal. That would be great. That would be great. And we'll all do our homework and make sure that we're all loaded, not loaded for beer. That's not a good metaphor for that particular thing. For the applicant may wanna be loaded for beer, but not us. All right, is there anything else? If not, chair will entertain a motion to adjourn. So moved, Mr. Chair. Second. Mr., moved by Mr. Klein, seconded, I think, Mr. Dupont. Yes. So we'll do the roll call. Mr. Klein? Aye. Mr. Dupont? Aye. Mr. Riccardelli? Aye. Mr. Holy?  Mr. Holy is at least making motions that suggest an aye. Aye, can you hear me now? Yes. Yes, now I can. Ms. Hoffman? Aye. Mr. LeBlanc?  Aye. And we're all adjourned. Thank you very much for coming, and I look forward to seeing you in a couple of weeks. And Mr. Reardon, particularly, thank you to you. Good night, everybody. Good night, everyone. Good night. Take care, everyone, thank you. Bye-bye. Good night. Bye. Good night.
</details></details>