### Town of Arlington Redevelopment Board Meeting [Agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1966&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda) [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3TLpMOOcli0) December 4, 2023 7:30 PM

<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17016&MeetingID=1966 "</a>1. Review Meeting Minutes</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 173</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Good evening, everyone. Welcome to the December 4th, 2023 meeting of the County of Arlington Redevelopment Board. I'll call this meeting to order. My name is Rachel Zimberry. I'm the chair of the Redevelopment Board, and I'll ask the other members of the board to please introduce themselves. Steve Rehbolak, good evening. Eugene Benson. Shane Hall, good evening. And we have Claire Bricker, the director of the Department of Planning and Community Development joining us as well. Great, let's jump into our first agenda item, which is agenda item number one, the meeting minutes from November 20th, 2023. I will see if there are any changes or corrections to the minutes, starting with Ken. No. Steve? No changes. Gene? No changes. Shana? No. And I don't have any either. Is there a motion to approve the meeting minutes from November 20th, 2023 as submitted? So motioned. Seconded. We'll take a vote, starting with Steve. Yes. Ken. Yes. Shana. Yes. Gene. Yes. And I may ask as well, those meeting minutes have been approved.</blockquote>

     * 7:30 pm The Board will review and vote to approve meeting minutes for November 20, 2023. 

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17017&MeetingID=1966 "</a>2. Consideration of Citizen Warrant Article</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 95</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We'll now move to agenda item number two, which is consideration of a citizen board article. We welcome John Leone. Good evening. This evening, who is interested in discussing with the board a rebuilding of 527 Winter Street to be in the MBTA community's overlay district, and I believe that there is a discussion around which of the two districts, perhaps, or is it the neighborhood public district? I think it would be more appropriate in the neighborhood public district. Okay. Why don't you, Claire, unless you have any introduction that you'd like to make?</blockquote>

      * 7:35 pm Re-zoning of 5-7 Winter Street to be in the MBTA-Communities Overlay District, Neighborhood Multi-Family Subdistrict. 
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 233</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sure, just really quickly for the board. Marisa put this drawing together for us this afternoon, which I think really tells the story here. In gray, you can see the neighborhood multifamily, as was submitted to the OHLC and the Attorney General's office. This is what town meeting voted on. And here is Mr. Leone's parcel. This parcel was likely removed when the board had the conversation about potentially leaving some of the immediate, the parcels immediately behind commercial development on Mass Ave, you know, potentially anticipating some aggregation. This was one of the parcels that was removed either as part of that process or because it was on the National Register of Historic Places. When we looked at Alternate 2, which is ultimately what the board went with in terms of the overlay for the entire MBTA community, we started to look sort of to the north, I guess, west of Mass Ave and include some area around Swanville. There was concern in the community about historic properties that may be included in the overlay, and so we did make a call to try to, as many of the properties as we could identify from the data that were on the National Register, to not include those in the district. And that's really the background, I think, in terms of from where the department is. Great. Thank you very much. Mr. Leone.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 John Leone - 594</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So this is not my house. It's my family's house. My grandparents bought this property in 1957-56, and we've maintained it ever since. They lived there until they passed, and family members have been living there for the last 10 or 12 years. We've had a...we've rented out the first floor to a single mom, who's basically...had to get rid of her. But as you can see, the house, it's a very large parcel for Arlington. I think it's around 18,000 square feet. It's been on the National Historic Register since 1984, but so has number 13, which was introduced to the Register during the same introduction phase. And I don't know how many others I've got in the district. It's kind of hard to track them down. I don't really have a good read on what is and what isn't, besides going through the Register and picking out all the houses. So I don't think that should be a reason to exclude our house. The property itself, obviously, because it's on the district, we couldn't do anything to it unless we paid for it from one of the store commissions or some gate guard commission. Not that we have any plans to do anything to the building. We have maintained it. We have a preference to put a roof on it. So we're not letting things fall into ruin in the hopes of knocking it down. That's not our plan. We want to preserve all our options. The size of the lot, and you talked about agitation, there's...we have a similar role with storefronts here. They may want to take the data to the Mass Ave. district and go off. That might cause them to possibly be interested in this part of the lot, which wouldn't touch the house structure itself, but would allow them to use that for different needs to build there. Or we could expand the house backwards and not touch the front or the two front sides and add on to the back of the house for additional housing. So we want to...and that was the reason, I think, for the Warren article itself, is to include it in just to preserve those options in the future. Otherwise, we have the potential to literally be surrounded by everybody around us. Maybe the town wants to do some of that. If all of those build up, we'll be this little lone house within a whole bunch of four to six story buildings. It would be kind of sad to waste that person. So that's what our goal is, just to preserve any options in the future. I'm one of six children. We all think this is something we want to preserve and go forward with. So I'm going to bring the Warren article, but my preference would be for you guys to adopt that Warren article. And maybe, I'm not quite sure why we were excluded in the first round, whether it was on purpose or by mistake or what happened. I think the neighborhood district would be more appropriate than the Mass Avenue district. Unless the storefronts wanted to do something. But there's a couple different owners of those storefronts. This is owned by one person, one family. These are owned by, I think these three are owned by different families. So it's not a cohesive owner that will lock the stores. Their back of their building is literally on the property. So there's not a lot of extra room there. So that's kind of what we are doing.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 275</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Before I put on this cap, Warren does open I believe in a week or so. So we've moved down that path. Absolutely. Maybe I'll start and then we can each kind of give you our sense. Because we did have a really truncated discussion about this. We didn't have much opportunity for the special town meeting this fall to have the discussion about the citizen petitions that came forward. So the property was moved because of the fact that it was on the national register. The board had requested in response to community feedback and the board's own preference for all projects that are on the national register to be removed. If one was not, that was in error, that was the direction of the board was to have them all removed. So at the time, it was our preference not to spot by allowing one here and not there. The intent was to remove all of those particular properties with the opportunity obviously in the future for anyone in town who can request a zoning change at any time. So I think this is absolutely a great time to be discussing this. I agree with you. I think that the neighborhood sub-district makes the most sense as opposed to the Mass Avenue-Broadway sub-district. I personally, when an applicant is looking to rezone their property, I personally prefer that it remain a citizen petition rather than a board sponsored. But it doesn't mean that the board wouldn't potentially in the future not vote in favor of it. So that wouldn't personally be my preference. But that's kind of a high level of my issue.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 107</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I agree with Rachel. The intent when we first did this was not to send you out, but it was to exclude all historic structures. And if we missed their teeth, we missed their teeth. It was quite a frenzy at the time trying to figure out all properties along there. We have to go back and correct ourselves if we have to do that. But when your article did come back up to us, I believe we were supportive of your work. Not at the time. We indicated that we would be if we came back as a citizen petition, but not as an individual amendment.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 426</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I agree with Rachel. We don't like the spot zone as a board. We recommend we make the change. And I, as a board member, would be supportive of that spot change because it would make a great argument. And it does make sense. I might go as far as if you go either way, you can be zoned with Mass Ave. Don't forget in front of this one, we excluded those because it's a part of the East Arlington. I want to say it would be part of that rezoning later on with Mass Ave. Those shops are very shallow, very non-compliant unless they have to move behind what you have. So to me, it's a natural potential to include your property with those along Mass Ave. And even if the building still wants to remain historic, it can be moved. Because otherwise, you are basically landlocking those projects out there and they'll never go anywhere. And that's one of the issues we have right now with some of our commercial space along Mass Ave. So I would be supportive of you going the other way. And that may be something we can find later on. There's many opportunities for you because of the location where you're at. And the size of the parcel, yes. But your parcel is a little bit on the landlocked side. But yes, it is. It's very hard to fit something new in that dog leg. You would have to eat your grandfather for that footprint of that dog leg. But that open space there is definitely right. And the dog leg may become the open space, I'm not sure. Frankly, the barn, even though we keep the outside, you can't steer it. The floor is on Locust Coast. I don't think there's that many barns left in Arlington, is there? No, not at that size. I remember looking at that when we were at the library and I looked at that. It's quite huge. This was Barclay, right? This house, originally, was here, facing Mass Ave. And they picked it up, moved it, and then sold it. So it had a circular drive going back to the barn from Mass Ave. Because I thought the history of the house, we had to research it. We moved it, I think, before 1920. And I think the source, at that point, had been moved. I'd be supportive of whatever you guys decide, but it would definitely recommend building it with a citizen's petition, not a board decision, but one block. Jayden?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 299</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would think it seems like a very appropriate parcel for the district to have to support a citizen petition. Jayden? I would too, but I'll tell you how I would do it. Excuse me. I would recommend you know the time you need it. Because I felt the last moment, which is when you do it, was too soon. It's nearly out of reach to the neighbors. And that would have to be done. And at least somehow to give historical permission ahead of time. So I felt that without that, it was premature, as I put it, to come to town here. I was under the impression that all of the historical, all of the buildings on the National Register were excluded from various plans. And I have confirmation that all of them are not. But I think it is possible. The other thing I'll just mention is we will at some point If we put those parcels at the base of NASA into the NASA network, it will have to go to town meeting. Under the Bible that was just passed, if one of those were to purchase a parcel, it would go into the NASA district if they wanted to. So you wouldn't have to rezone the NASA district. Where we ended up with is if a parcel went both districts, it would go back to the NASA network. So we wouldn't need to make that decision now. So I would be supportive, but we would have to do that with the neighbors. Considering the neighbors have gone in or been added, I would assume that they won't be. It also happened to the Historical Commission to see what they had to say. I'm just curious, your family property went not onto the National Register.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 John Leone - 58</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No. Nothing. It just kind of happened. We didn't. That's the day before. I don't remember having any kind of discussion at that point about it. My parents and grandparents would have passed. My father at that point didn't object. He was speaking with the tenants of the house, and at that point family members were living there.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 161</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Your father was a lawyer, so he had some idea. Some idea it was happening, but it was one of those things. Bringing in these 70 or 80 parcels, and you're one of them. It was kind of a mass introduction of the National Register. Do you know if this is also on the town's inventory? Not now. I think it may be. Sure it is. Not every property that's on the National Register is on the town's inventory. I don't know. Subject to the neighbors and the Historical Commission, I'm probably standing here doing this too. You should take a look at the zoning bylaws. It requires you to register your servant members to be members and keep them as part of the process. Don't forget that. If you want, I can email you the exact site and zoning bylaws. I think the department can help. understanding what the outreach is correct. Absolutely. Sure. Perfect. That's it. Thanks. Great. Steve.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 102</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I'm also supportive of the inclusion of that property in the neighborhood from the end of the district. Noting that, you know, what's immediately to the Southwest is a strip of, a fairly narrow strip of D3 parcels. You know, I would also be willing to consider and say a concurrent zoning, changing the base zoning to D3. Yeah. This may change, as Mr. Benson said, this may change in a few years, but in terms of having flexibility to allow some of those commercial properties to expand rearward in the future. You know, it may be something you want to consider.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 47</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay? Thank you. Any other thoughts before we open up for public comment? Okay. Absolutely. Great. Absolutely. Absolutely. Anyone, do we have anything to say? I think just to tell you a little bit about- Sorry, if you could just introduce yourself for the record. Thank you.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 206</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I'm sorry. I'm the chair of the Department of Historical Commission of Zilber City, and it was in the 1980s when these were put on the register, and I think that's in the document that you had. You know, I found out about this this morning, and I just wanted to come over and say that, you know, one of the things that I particularly would like to see is that if the houses could be, you know, retained, and re-mapped for some use, like your, you know, the original idea for your work, that's something we would support, because we feel that, you know, these are big houses, they could be reused, and so, you know, that's my perspective on this kind of thing, and I can provide a list of, I think there were some other new states. I'm just gonna come down here in terms of which ones are actually on the National Register and which ones aren't, and some of them are very important. These are the houses that were built for the Slack people who were running the town at that time, and I can tell you a little bit about that history, but I wouldn't make it in that term.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 46</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great, thank you, and I think you make a good point around the fact that putting, or asking the town to approve changing the zoning to the neighborhood, the neighborhood sub-district does not necessarily identify how specifically this would be redeveloped into, to Wayne Robinson's point,</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 67</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;right, there are multiple ways of retaining the existing structure, exactly, exactly. The Carrick House is also on the National Register. This is the Carrick House, I was looking at materials. That's a piece on the property, all the buildings on that piece of property are in the National Register, so that's the way it works. I just thought I'd come down and send you two signals.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 100</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thank you, that's helpful. Here's some of your outreach now, also to these door-to-door ships. Would anyone else like to speak this evening? Okay, great, so we'll close public comment, and it sounds like, unless you have any other questions, that the board is generally supportive. Obviously, we'll, if you decide to adjourn with the citizen petition, we will hold a full hearing once that is identified as an article that we'll put forward towards the board, requiring anything unforeseen, and it sounds like the board has anything else you'd like to share, as if the board is supportive of.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery and John Leone - 107</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I appreciate it. Yeah, right there at the floor. Okay, great. It just makes more sense, if you would like to not. Great, all right, thank you for your question. Commercial area, though, I mean, is that one of the ones that you're considering? Yeah, no, it was. I was not, I was not talking about it. I didn't know who I was considering. It would be the neighbors, I said it was, right? Okay. Residential. Residential, yes. Okay, all right, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, thank you so much. Thank you, thank you. So, with that, we will close agenda item number two,</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17033&MeetingID=1966 "</a>3. Discussion of Board Plans for 2024</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 106</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and open agenda item number three, which is the discussion of the board plans for 2024. So, we had identified that we would, follow up on some of the items that were still open from the board retreat that was held yesterday. Yesterday? Seems so long ago, but it was yesterday. Let us happen. And there were two specific items, and Claire, it looks like we have at least one of those, the administrative approval of signs. Correct. Is that from you? So, maybe we'll start with that as one of the open items from yesterday's board meeting. So, Gene, I'll hand it over to you.</blockquote>

    * 8:00 pmThe Board will debrief the Board Retreat and continue discussion of any issues raised at the retreat as necessary. 
 
##### Eugene Benson
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 174</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I think it's an interesting question, and it's one that, obviously, it's up to the team. We have, it has been a little bit of a balance, a little tricky to balance what is so minor that you don't want to necessarily put on the board. And what is, you know. Subverting the board or the applicant. The board or the applicant. It is a $500 application. And there are times when modification is pretty minor. Whether we're going from a non-illuminated sign to an illuminated sign, something like that. Illuminated sign meets all the other requirements of zoning. There's that one, you know, kind of stick in there, which is that we're going from a non-illuminated sign to an illuminated sign. It's something that the board would like to see. So I think, like, you know, I hate to sort of ball this back and forth, but, you know, how detailed and how much time do people need to spend on those types of signs to meet the letter of the sign by-law?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker? - 298</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I mean, I'm more than happy to put every sign I get, you know, potentially, in front of the board. If that's what you, you know, that's what you would like to have happen. But it does seem like if it's worked, I would say that the work that Gracie's done, and, you know, Katie now, this is under the auspices of the Economic Development Director. She generally starts with a review of the sign. If she has questions, she'll obviously come to me and we'll work with her to sort this out. But generally, we have tried to stay within the constraints of the sign by-law as much as we can without bringing things that are sort of non-relative to the managing of the petition going from SNF elimination to the third amendment, with all of our conditions in mind. So I guess my question is, if the way I read this, any new sign, another modification, could not be subject to administrative review. And so my question is, should we broaden this so that the only signs that cannot be administratively reviewed are the signs that don't meet the high-grit criteria, you know, that don't meet one of the requirements where the board is the authority to weigh or adjust them with the requirements. Because right now, this is very narrow. If there were, you know, a new building built, we would have the authority to administrate a new sign. We would sign all of the standards. So that's, do we want it, and it brings us to you and the board, do we want to make this broader so that the department can approve administratively any sign that complies with the current rules? Or do we still want to leave it to just sign it?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 108</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great question. Steve, you wanna say? Sure. I would be, you know, it depends on who the director is, but I would be okay with using administrative review for things that comply with the, you know, the letter of the requirements in the zoning bylaw and saving our role for when applicants want to go beyond that. You know, I also think there's, maybe we wanna have a discussion about whether bullet items number five and six of rule 18, you know, requiring the same illumination or not internally illuminated, you know, whether we want to continue to keep that in place if we want to. Thanks, Steve.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Paul ? - 44</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Paul, I agree with the administrative review for things that generally comply with the bylaw. It makes a lot of sense, I think, potentially reserving the right of the board to review things in our key locations or high-profile sites when they were considered.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 194</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. And I agree. I think that the word may be considered, allows for some of that flexibility. In fact, we had a set of signage that came in front of us recently that was marginally in compliance. And because of the fact that there were multiple signs on the building, the department did elect to present in front of the board so that we can have a discussion, which I appreciated. So I think that that particular modifier may give the department a certain kind of flexibility there. And I agree with Steve that removing the criteria that specifically speaks to illumination, whether it's an illuminated sign or a non-illuminated sign, I believe that the signage bylaw is suitably prescriptive in terms of which, what types of illumination are allowed. And if it meets those and the other criteria, and again, the planning department feels that they have the bandwidth to review and that it's not in the location where they feel that it's important for the development board to weigh in, I would be fine with removing the illumination requirement so that they can review it, whether it is illuminated or not.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Various - 804</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yeah, I would agree with the planning board. I think the intent when we first tried to modify the signage package was to give the planning board more flexibility in approving signs so that it wasn't such an arduous process of going through a whole planning board meeting for a simple sign. That was very minor, and I wholeheartedly agree with that. I mean, it's just small, minor changes. We have all faith that you guys will do the right thing, and you have. So I have no objections to this at all. I think, Gene, I would think we should make whatever changes to the signage article or bylaw that would empower, maybe Richard, you're correct, but they already, let's give her that authority. I don't know, but I would say, let's make that change to make it happen. Well, I think we would just basically. What? Let's give it. We would need to rewrite Rule 18 of the Rules of Medicine. Right, there's so many modifications that it would need. Right, that we would get rid of the modification altogether, basically so. Signs on property, signs on property. Right, and we would get rid of the ones that we, we wouldn't need them at all, and just say, if the sign proposal doesn't meet the requirements of the zoning bylaw, then it needs to come to us, and then there's a sense that's still there, that I believe in, but since the department's not required to provide administrative approval, maybe we can refer that to the board, and then we can put in something like, we shall refer it to the board. I don't exactly know, maybe there's something that we can think of as that wording for that, so that we're not moving into the way we're going. But I think what, here, again, that this, if we, look at this, in terms of saying that the administrative approval by the Director of Planning and Community Development, or the signs are subject to administrative approval by the Director of Planning and Community Development or signs that meet the zoning and general bylaw conditions, the department may, you know, again, we can talk about how they may refer the signs to Environmental Design Review. You know, the bylaw requires signs, except for sort of house signs and things like that, that may come to us. So, I think the way to do this would just be to say, signs, I'm not sure exactly what, the Planning and Community Development may approve signs that are in the criteria, and that, one, the sign meets zoning requirements, two, there are no known zoning bylaw conditions outstanding in the curriculum, and then, that's what we would do in that whole paragraph. Just two and three? Yeah, just two and three, and then we would do the first introductory sentence, and then we would take a paragraph afterward with the sign proposal, and then we would have the one that required, we would just have something that said major, and that would be signs, and that would be it. So, instead of sign modifications, it would be new signs or sign modifications, right? So, I'm just sorry, I don't know if you can see that. Sure. Well, we can just see it. Why don't we do that? So, change of the pose. And that just gives a little bit more work to the department, but I think overall, it would be better for the business and the clients. So, it would actually be less work in the long run processing sign applications, especially for when they're unnecessary. Do we sign, should there be a new fee for submitting for a sign that the department approved? Do you know if the building department currently accesses a fee? We already do. They do already? They do, for a sign? For a sign permit. This is a review application, right? Yes. Let me, I'm not prepared to answer that question, I think, right now, this evening, but it's absolutely, yes, thank you for bringing that up, and I think it's something we should certainly look into. I would not make it equal to any special permit fee. No, no, no. Okay. Well, there is the procedure, and we can just leave the procedure in the project if we want to, etc. That's probably what we need to get rid of, the last five years of regulation. So, that probably does it. Because that would be done whether or not there was an administrative approval. Thank you. Great. So, we will update that when that proposal is ready back for a final review in a future meeting. I can just say, you know, we're going to amend the rules and regulations for this and for the next five years. Great.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 28</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. I will turn it over to you to see if there are any other topics from the board retreat that you wanted to follow up on today.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 369</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sure. Thank you. One thing that we did not get to last night that we should consider looking at for a potential urban renewal area. And I think the way that we can do that is I can have the department look at a few suggestions for areas that might be good for an urban renewal plan. The first area that immediately leaves my mind is Arlington Center. Especially if we could make it parcel. I think that it would qualify under state statute for a potential urban renewal plan and redevelopment. I think that we should certainly look into doing one sooner rather than later. Just simply because it's the responsibility of the board and the property. Which is important. But I do think we do need to start brainstorming on certain areas relative to what we do for an urban renewal plan. Like I said, I'm sorry I started a conversation yesterday about having maps or thoughts initially right now about where we may want to do a plan like that. We could even do a one parcel potential urban renewal plan. That's something we could consider as well. Whether it's a common lot or really anywhere else. We could even ten park out of the place. Something that could be an area that could be an urban renewal could be a problem. So I think what I would like to do is our next move on the 18th is propose for new areas that we can look at and do some research. Check for any last parcels that aren't necessarily being built out to the full terms of zoning. I know we've talked potentially about Durham Street in the past. But certainly I think Durham Street should be a focal point. I certainly would be open to a volunteer to help. We'll sit in on the meeting with you guys when you guys first do this and I will be very interested in that. Since I do have a little history. Just look at our properties and turn it over quick and fast. As far as if it's viable or not viable. And I've been looking at some of these properties for quite some time now.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 60</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There's a spark. That's okay is one. One and two or one okay? Two is fine. Three is no. Okay. We learned that. Okay. Just let me know and I will try to make some time for you. I know it's the holidays and Christmas and all that stuff. But I will try my best. Okay. Great. Thank you. Shayna.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery and Shaina Korman-Houston - 36</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Where is Dudley Street? Excuse me. I totally got that wrong. Dudley Street is what I was just saying. My apologies. That makes more sense now. That makes more sense. All right. Okay. Gene. Great. Steve.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 407</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I'm in favor of the notion of considering urban renewal plan. In terms of other things. Things we didn't quite get to yesterday. Pipe buffers. Yes. We need to. Review. I think what we should do is. Pull that section. Onto a pager meeting. Whether it's for the 18. Or the first meeting in January. Which is the eighth. It would be good to pull the background information again so that we can come to some. The green. On. The scope. And the references that need to be included. In the. In the. Word article. Language. What's the word. When. The word article closes. January. 26. Thank you very much. Okay. Always. So. I think that. On the eighth. We should. Be working towards. The language that we would like to see. Because we'll have one more meeting. Then I believe. To finalize. The language. For the board. It's. Correct. That's right. Yes. Exactly. But I think if we have a discussion on the eighth. If there's any follow-up. It's necessarily. We can do that. And that. Go. Sports for everyone. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Good Hale. All right. Yeah. So. Could we do a scooter model? Well, I love this app. This shows the massive abilities and. So, we're just. Part of the discussion. Anything we do. Okay. Reduce type of her. Right. Yes. Okay. So, we have a discussion too about. The. Mass. Architectural. Access for. And. To do with that. And I told you. The language. Which I guess. I'm just. Sure. That I suggested. The general. Condition. Which is now. In the general. Conditions. And we could. Do similar. Similar. And. We'd say. Conditions. This special. Environment. Is. Condition. Applied. Conditions. And then. You have a. State. With. The. Mass. Protected. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. That's the exact. Language. We'll get. Your approval. Right. Suggestions. Yes. And now. If. Things don't get. Intend. It's the memory. Yeah. Okay. So. The decision language. I think. Is maybe the first. General. Before the truth. So. Yes. Thank you. Much more important. Do we need to hold it here? To make that change? No. No. It's our thing. It's ours. Okay. Great. Anything else? No. Okay.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="4. Open Forum "</a>4. Open Forum </summary> </details>
<details>
<summary><a href="5. New Business "</a>5. New Business </summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 127</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;All right. Let's move. To the item. Number. Three. We don't have any. Sure. So. My. Great piece. Of business. Goodness. This week. Is that. We have. Someone's accepted. Existing. Position. And. The process. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Of. Okay. So. Process. Background. Check right now. And. necesita. Interest in starting. So. Wow, definitely. You know, pending. The background check. We do. Certainly. User to the board. Very active. And really.  Very. Excited to. Business. No. No. Team. He. Did. So. We did. Your back. And I was accepted. For. My. So. Yes. So. It currently. Inspired. I believe. Great. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. The water. Says. Fantastic. Well, with those two pieces of good news.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="6. Adjourn "</a>6. Adjourn </summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 27</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Is there a motion to adjourn? So motion. I'll second. I'll take a vote. Starting with Steve. Yes. Gene. Yes. Shannon. Yes. Tim. Yes. Yes. As well.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>