### Arlington Redevelopment Board - October 10, 2023  [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hvth51MLo3Q) [agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1936&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda)

<details><summary>Opening</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 103</summary>

> All right. Good evening, everyone. Welcome to the Town of Arlington Redevelopment Board meeting on October 10th, 2023. My name is Rachel Zembary. I'm the chair of the board. I'll call this meeting to order. If the other members of the board could please introduce themselves. Steve Revolak. Eugene Benson. Ken Lowell. And we also have joining us the Director of the Department of Planning and Community Development, Heather Ricker. Thank you. So for those in the back, I'm going to apologize. We don't have projecting mics this evening, so we will project our voices. Let me know if you can't hear me.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Report to Fall 2023 Special Town Meeting</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 96</summary>

> Let's move to our first item on our agenda this evening, which is the Redevelopment Board report to fall 2023 special town meeting. And a special thanks to Claire and Marissa and the department for turning this around so quickly after our meeting last Monday evening. So Claire, I will turn it over to you to overview the board report. And then my thought was that we would go article by article. We'll first start with any overall comments from the board, and then we'll go article by article. Great. I'll turn it over to you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 119</summary>

> OK. Thanks very much. And thanks to the board for reviewing the draft report over the weekend and some of the responses that we've gotten already. So essentially, the report covers by article as listed in the warrant. Each of the articles that we discussed at our deliberation and discussion meeting, I took quite a few notes at that meeting, as did Marissa. I hope I captured at least some of the discussion that was had that evening. I tried to put it in small narratives discussion section immediately after the language of the warrant article. Some, obviously, I had more language on than others, but certainly open to any edits, additions, or comments from the board this evening.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 66</summary>

> Great. Thank you so much. Let's see. So let us go ahead and start with any general comments around the opening section, and then we'll go article by article. So let's start with the introduction and overview and the zoning articles overview. And I'll run through the board members to see if there are any additions or corrections there, starting with Ken. I have none. Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 126</summary>

> On page 2, near the bottom, it mentions that the ads are in the Arlington Advocate, but the advocate, technically, isn't the name anymore. Okay. It's the Advocate and Star. So I would suggest that we change that. It's the fourth line from the bottom on page 2. Yep. And Star. It's not Arlington anymore. It's just called Advocate and Star. I went online today to confirm that that was correct. We lost our newspaper. The other thing I wonder, it's a general comment, and I think Rachel may have mentioned this the last time. Do we want to put in here whether the vote at town meeting is majority or two-thirds, or do we want to leave that for when we get to town meeting?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 186</summary>

> Thank you, Gene. I can just weigh in on that. We have not in the past included that. I think that's a great question. Unfortunately, for the turnaround that we have, I know that Claire and I had put that question to Doug Heim right as he was, you know, in his last week, and Michael Cunningham is now currently looking at that and should be getting back to us any day with whether or not there are some articles which we are confirming with town council which require a two-thirds, a supermajority versus a simple majority vote, which affect density for multifamily uses. So once we have that, we can add it in. I just don't know if it's going to be in time for Claire and the department to submit this to town meeting. So I think that's a great suggestion for the future if the other board members are in agreement, if we are not able to get it in this round. Anything else? No. If I do get an answer, I can include it, for sure, if that's what the board desires.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 89</summary>

> Yeah, we know MBTA communities is a simple majority vote, but it's the others that... Right, so open space, rear yard setbacks, corner lot requirements, street trees or not, those are the only four that I believe are subject to the simple majority. Could be, yeah. Could be subject. I believe that they are per the definition, but again, I'm having town council double check that. And there are specific guidelines within the Mass General Law which relate to those two thresholds. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Gene. Steve.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 116</summary>

> Okay, I have one and possibly two. Okay. The first in the... This would go into the zoning article overview, where we give a statutory description of how this fits into... We give a statutory description, and I was wondering if just a more... We might augment that with a broad overview. Some of the articles are oriented towards enhancing business districts, and the others are MBTA communities and trees, and just some of the motivations. I provided a memo with some suggested language, which I believe was posted with the agenda. Yes. I also have copies. I have a copy. I'm just going to pull it out. Okay. Thank you. Ken, do you want to...
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 46</summary>

> Yeah, and just... My thought was to just give a little bit of the background information and explain why they're coming now, because we had planned to bring them in the spring, and it was... And we're asked to defer them. And yeah, that's basically that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Others - 501</summary>

> Great. I'm in support of that. Are there any concerns with adding Steve's proposed general language to the opening into the zoning articles overview?  That's the section you wanted to add. Yeah, so the section would be zoning... Yeah, under zoning articles overview. Yeah. Perfect. Great. The other sort of more general... And this actually goes a little beyond further into the report. It's into the table of contents. I was going to suggest that we first have the articles appear in the report by order and include the article number along with the article title. Absolutely. I am fine with that. Any concerns with that change? Okay. I actually have a question while we're talking about the table of contents about the ordering of these. They're not in numerical order, so I was just wondering if there was a particular reasoning for that. Sure. There is no reasoning for that other than it was difficult to move the table of contents around and provide the appropriate draft. So the articles will be listed in the order they are on the warrant in the final draft. Yes. Okay. Great. Thank you. Okay. And I also was thinking, to Steve's point, there was a great general note that was listed in, I believe, article 10 about why the group of zoning articles that we've included are included this year that I wanted to propose to the board that, in addition to Steve's language, we might want to include. And I'll just read it out, and I will send you the notes, my notes after this, so that we can include this if the board feels so. So the section reads, while the amendment to FAR by 2022 town meeting has made redevelopment of underutilized properties more attractive, other requirements such as setbacks, stepbacks, usable open space, parking buffers, and minimum lot areas and frontages frustrate the ability to reach the maximum allowable heights. So in my mind, that could either be included in each one of those referenced zoning articles or, again, to Steve's point, in the overview as to why the suite of zoning articles were included as a package this year for town meeting. So I wanted to propose that for discussion. Any thoughts? Steve? I would include it with each article where it's applicable. Okay. Gene? I think that makes sense also. Okay. Ken, are you fine with that? Same here, yes. Okay. So we will make sure that that is included for stepbacks, usable open space, and height, which is the other one that that applies to. Pull up my list. So open space, rear yard setbacks, stepbacks, any of the dimensional lot requirements, basically, we'll add that language in. Okay. Anything else on the front end, including the table of contents? All right. Let's move on to the individual articles. So we'll start with article five, open space and business districts, and we'll start with Ken for any additions or corrections. I have none. Okay. Steve?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 203</summary>

> So two. One, although the discussion, these are just the discussion section, although the discussion mentions, focuses on usable open space, I think what it's saying is also applicable to landscaped, and I had suggested some edits accordingly. And the other one was I received an email from the chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals suggesting a language change in the main motion. Not really a language change, but a pair of quotations. That is, is that on here? No. It's not on here. Do you want to run through what those are? Yes. So there is, let me find it, the section in the report. Yes. So this would be in section 5322.C. And the last sentence reads, for calculating usable open space and landscaped open space in the business districts, see the note at the end of the B district open space and lot coverage table in section 552A. So Mr. Klein's suggestion was to put the table name in quotes, so it would be, quote, unquote, B district open space and lot coverage. End quote. Table. Is that consistent with, I have not gone back to double check to see if that's consistent to how other references are included.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 10</summary>

> Gene is shaking his head no. It is not. Okay.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 79</summary>

> Okay. Then I would say we should keep it as it is. Fair enough. But I appreciate the In terms of any questions or comments on Steve's proposed changes per this, per his document in terms of identifying open space as both usable and landscaped, because I think he's right. The references do apply to both, and his other wording modification, which I think is appropriate as well. No concerns?  Okay. Great. Gene, any modifications for Article V?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 137</summary>

> I do, and I apologize I didn't send these around before. I didn't get them done until late in the afternoon. Where? Thank you. On page six, I would suggest two sentences be added. The first is allowing green balconies and green roofs as part of open space for occupants can enhance the use of their property and provide a pleasant green building facade. And the second I think we should add is, while decreasing the amount of usable open space for mixed-use buildings, which is not required to be green or permeable and can prevent good mixed-use buildings from being developed, this increases the required amount of landscaped open space for mixed-use buildings, which increases the amount of green space for trees and other plantings. So I'd like to include those two sentences in the discussion.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Others - 403</summary>

> Thank you, Gene. I actually had a similar recommendation that I was intending to make around ensuring that we highlight the increase to landscaped open space and not just the removable, usable open space. So I'm supportive of both of those changes. Mm-hmm. Steve? Supportive. Okay, great. One other on page six. Yes. I'm not sure if Steve got to this, but it says the definition of usable open space limits were and how the public and private benefits, but usable open space is only private benefit. There's no public allowance on that space. So I would delete the words public and, so it should just read where and how the private benefits of open space can be achieved. The private, correct. So we take out public and. Okay. I think that makes sense. Claire, did you?  Yeah, where is this? I'm sorry. So that is in on Steve's memo. Okay, sorry. No, no, it's fine. It's also on his memo. He has another modification to that same sentence. So on that one, Claire, if you just wanted to strike out on the next page, top, the second line. Public and private. Where it says public and, keep private, but just public and would need to be removed. Yeah. Got it. Great. Okay. Gene, anything else? No. On this one? Okay. Ken?  Nope. Nope. Okay. So the only item I have, and I'm going to apologize, I keep moving between windows, is, this is actually on each one of the articles. Let me find where it is. So where it says the redevelopment board voted 4-0-0 that the zoning bylaw be and hereby is amended as follows. We need to add either favorable action or no action to what the vote was in this section. So if you could do that in each one of the sections. So this would read then, the redevelopment board voted 4-0-0, voted favorable action 4-0-0 that the zoning bylaw be. Okay. And that will just be a general note across all of them. Great. Let's move on to the next article. So the next article is rear yard setbacks in business districts. Ken, did you have any modifications for this one? No. Gene? No. Steve? No changes, Madam Chair. Okay. Great. Let's move to article seven, step back requirements in the business districts. Starting with Ken, any modifications? No. Gene? I have one modification. Okay.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 83</summary>

> Add a parenthetical at the end of the vote that says, and the parenthetical would say the ARB member who voted no was in favor of the amendments proposed in this article. The no vote was because the step back requirement would remain on the fourth floor rather than be raised to the fifth floor. I know you said something like that above. It's referenced, but it's not clear. Not clear. So I wanted to put this parenthetical in to make it clear.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Others - 532</summary>

> Ken, are you okay with that modification? Sure. It's clear. I thought that was enough, but thank you. Okay. Steve? Fine by me. Okay. Great. So I had one modification, and again, I will send you my Word document so you have these here. There was a section in when we had originally proposed these for Springtown meeting, there was a section that was included that had to do with with the review of zoning regulations in Arlington's neighboring communities, and around how most of those do not have any step-back requirements, and for those that do, where those began or what the step-back requirement was tied to. So my thought was that before we add the board debated whether the step-back requirement should begin above, that we add that sentence which reads, a review of zoning regulations in Arlington's neighborhood, and again I'll send this to you, Arlington's neighboring communities reveals that most do not have step-back requirements. Of those that do require step-backs, the step-back requirement either does not begin until a height of 65 feet or the step-back is required as part of the community's design standards to allow planning boards the flexibility to negotiate step-backs as part of the overall design review. Some communities requiring step-backs require them only on the principle of the facade. So I thought it was important to add that back in, again for context as part of our discussion, and then the other thing that I thought we should add is where we talk about the board debated whether the step-back requirement should begin above the third or fourth level, that we add in that the board came to the conclusion that maintaining the requirement for at a minimum a step-back on the principle facade only at the fourth story was contextually appropriate for the town of Arlington. The board also clarified that the step-back should be measured from the principle property line. I wanted to bring some clarification to the discussion around the fourth versus fifth story and also the fact that we are clarifying that this is from the property line, which was unclear, we felt, in the original bylaw. Okay. Okay. Okay. So I have those spelled out, and again, I'll send you the board modifications. That's wonderful. Thank you. Okay. Great. And I will note, too, that we will make James' proposed changes. Okay. Let's move to Article 4, reduced height buffer area, which was a no-action vote. So I wanted to see if there were any modifications, starting with Ken. Nope. Still no action. Okay. Gene?  No change. Steve? Nothing here. And this looks good to me, so let's move to Article 9, corner lot requirements, starting with Ken. Nope. Gene? No change. And Steve? I would suggest adding a paragraph in the discussion, noting that there is a section in the zoning bylaw that essentially gives the board the ability to adjust setbacks during environmental design review, and what we're proposing is really a codification of how the board has been applying this, and with the hope that it would lead to, you know, more predictability and improving the clarity of the bylaw. Thank you, Steve.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 283</summary>

> I think that this is a good change, or a good addition to town meeting in terms of the thought behind the discussion. My other thought, and, you know, we had a question from a town meeting member as, you know, saying, I just don't understand this article. And one thought I had, because I can see this one's a little bit harder to understand because there's a lot of references to underlying business district versus adjacent. I thought that Gene had a great example that during our discussion he provided around when a property is next to a, the abutting property is residential and the setback is 15, required to be, I think it's 15 feet. He made the observation that in many cases those properties are non-conforming themselves, so it imposes a stricter requirement than what actually exists. So again, it's just one more example of why we felt that this clarification and predictability was important. If we think that that's overcomplicating it, we don't have to add it, but I'm, again, trying to be responsive to some of the questions we've already had in terms of whether or not we think it's helpful to provide an example or two for clarity. I think the other way to think about it is the adjoining lots on different blocks may have different required setbacks, so you're constraining what happens in the business district in a different way, which makes no sense from block to block in the business district just based on what's happening down the side street. So I think that might be a way to say it, but not exactly the way I see it, but with some better clarity.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 117</summary>

> Yeah, I mean, the requirements for corner lots make all the sense in the world when the corner property and the two abutting it are all in the same district. Works very well in that case, but when they are in different, the corner lot is in a different district than anything that touches than one of the adjoining ones, then it can get awkward. I think that's a great way of saying it. So Steve or Gene, do either one of you, I could take a stab at coming up with some wording, specific wording for this, unless either one of you have something more specific. I know Gene, you've provided a couple of good examples.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 54</summary>

> I'm leaving town tomorrow morning. So why don't I take a stab, and I can email that to Claire, and Steve, I'll CC you, and you can help us wordsmith. Happy to do that. Fantastic. Okay. Great. So no diagram? That would be in the slides that we'll prepare for town meeting. Fair enough.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 67</summary>

> Thank you. Does that work? Yes. For everyone?  Yes. But I agree, I think a diagram could illustrate this very clearly. Would you show it right out? Absolutely. Absolutely. I'll make a note of that. Okay. Great. So the NAC, any other changes to Article 9, the discussion points? All right, let's move to height and story minimums. Article 8. We'll start with Ken. Nope. Gene.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 141</summary>

> The second paragraph in the discussion that says within the business districts doesn't seem to relate to this article in which we're just adding, you know, they must be at least two stories high. So I would completely delete the second paragraph in the discussion. And I would add to the last paragraph, I would remove the phrase at the end with a requirement to include a second story that's at least 30% of the first floor dimension because that's not what we're proposing. Right. And I'd replace that with what I wrote here with a requirement that the second floor be usable and allowing the redevelopment board to waive or modify the requirement if a second floor would be infeasible for the project open per-en, e.g. for a gas station, closed per-en. So those are my suggestions for this one.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 39</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Gene. Steve.  I just had a small wordsmithing change. Yep. So this would be in the first paragraph. Striking the words intensifying development opportunities and replacing them with encouraging the development of higher value buildings.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 216</summary>

> Great. And I agree with both of those proposed changes. I also was looking at rewordsmithing that second paragraph as well. So I think, Gene, your suggestion of just eliminating it entirely makes a great deal of sense. Great. Great. So I will note here. I'll take out my comment and note to accept Steve and Gene's proposed changes. Great. Let's move to Article 3, the administrative correction. Any changes to this section, Ken? No. Gene?  No. Steve? No. This looks good to me. The only thing I just wanted to note, sorry, before we move on to that, is when we do the slides for town meeting, one thing that's been helpful in the past is when we identify when the underlying zoning was changed, which created the misnumbering. So not for this report, but when we get to the slides for town meeting, that the underlying zoning change sometimes is helpful so that people can see when that change was made that created. I'm pretty sure it was lost. I believe so, too. So I was just going to go back and double check that. Great. So let's move on to the next item, which is Article 11, residential uses in the business district. Any changes to the report section, Ken? No. Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 49</summary>

> I have one suggestion to the discussion, and let's add two sentences at the end. One and two family dwellings can continue to be used and are not required to be converted to any other use. They will be considered non-conforming uses, of which there are many in Arlington.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 113</summary>

> Okay. That makes sense. Okay. Steve? Nothing here. Is everyone in agreement with Gene's proposed changes? Great. And I think that is ‑‑ I was trying to get at the same thing, and was going to suggest that we are allowing development of new single family and two family homes, but I was trying to get at the same thing that you were, that we're not saying that, you know, those are no longer ‑‑ the existing uses are no longer permitted, so ‑‑ I will just note then that we will move forward with Gene's proposed changes. Great. So the next article is Article 10, street trees. Ken, any modifications? No. Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson and Others - 255</summary>

> I have two modifications. Okay. In the second paragraph of the discussion, I would suggest deleting the phrase, along Arlington's main corridors, because this applies all over town and not the main corridors. Yep. And I would suggest adding a sentence at the end that says, this is a necessary addition so that development in the MBTA community's overlay district will also require street trees. Great. Can I just ask one question, then, if I can do that?  Please. It's only ‑‑ it applies all over town only if it's going under environmental review. So if you pull a permit to add a dormer ‑‑ No. It has to be new development. New development. Okay. We haven't changed that part of it. We changed ‑‑ yeah, we made sure that the wording was such ‑‑ What does it say there? It says new construction additions over 50% of existing footprint or redevelopment. We didn't change that at all. Okay. Then I'm fine. I think that that is something that we'll make sure to highlight in the slides, though. That's a really good point. Ken? Yeah, okay. Yep. I agree. I think that that's an important call out. Yep. And if you think, Ken, that we should make that clear in the discussion, we can do that in this report as well. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we can highlight that. I think that that's a good call out. Yeah. We can add that saying that we talked about that, so that this only applies ‑‑
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 56</summary>

> Yep. I think that's a good comment. Or it doesn't apply to minor changes in dormers. Only to new construction, renovations over 50%. And redevelopment. That's right from the zoning bylaws. Great. Steve, any modifications? None here. Great. Okay. The next is Article 12, MBTA Communities Overlay District. Modifications to the discussion points, starting with Ken.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau and Rachel Zsembery - 196</summary>

> I like what Gene said earlier, saying that some points were ‑‑ some of the board members ‑‑ well, a board member was in favor of this, but not in favor of all the changes and went along to go with this. I don't know how you said it, Gene, earlier, but it was quite elegant. So ‑‑ Yeah, we can take what I did in the other one and transpose it over here. Right. So that was ‑‑ the ARB member who voted no was in favor ‑‑ although you didn't vote no on this one. No. We can say voted yes. Voted yes. Yeah. The ARB member who voted yes was in favor of the ‑‑ Most, but not all of the amendments proposed. By the redevelopment board to the working group's original ‑‑ Add that to the final discussion, that's all. Yep. Okay. Because we did discuss that. Yes. We did. In detail. Okay. Final discussion. One ARB member was in favor of maintaining the three highlighted original ‑‑ The study group's working group's ‑‑ Yeah, the three highlighted working group recommendations. Yep. Great. Thank you, Ken. Any other modifications? Nope. Great. Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 83</summary>

> I have two modifications. Okay. On page 24, the third paragraph of the discussion, I would ‑‑ partway down, I would delete the phrase allowing for development of multifamily housing in the R‑0 and R‑1 zones because the proposal does not do that. So about halfway down in the third paragraph, it says allowing for the development of multifamily housing in the R‑0 and R‑1 zones, but that's not what's going on here, so I would just delete that from the third paragraph.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 259</summary>

> Okay. Okay. And then I would add a new paragraph after the fourth paragraph, and I'll read it to you. State law and guidelines require our town to rezone at least 32 acres where there would be a capacity for at least 2,046 housing units, open per‑end three units or more per building, closed per‑end, that would not require a special permit to be constructed, open per‑end, i.e., as of right, closed per‑end. Rather than limit the zone to one area of 32 acres, which would allow the entire area to have five and six story high buildings, this article takes the context of the town into account, setting the height of buildings like those already in the areas and placing the zones on and near our transit and business corridors. Placing the zones on and near Mass Ave and Broadway will help support sustainable walkable neighborhoods where residents can walk to local shops, services, and public transportation, thereby reducing the use of automobiles. It will also provide more potential customers, open per‑end, and perhaps employees and owners closed per‑end for those businesses, keeping them strong and help maintain our vibrant business corridors. That is consistent with town policies and the community survey responses about how to implement the MBTA communities law. In addition, the new development will be subject to site plan review, which authorizes a redevelopment board to make sure the development is consistent with an environmental design review standards and guidelines. So I'd like to add that to sort of round out what this is about.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 59</summary>

> I think this is a great addition. May I make one proposed modification? So rather than make sure the development is consistent with environmental design review standards and guidelines, those were modified slightly by what we have identified in the ‑‑ actually, no, it was the site ‑‑ the special permit requirements, which were updated. So this is fine.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 55</summary>

> That makes sense. Sorry. I had to work that out in my head as I was reading it out loud. Steve, any questions or concerns? Do you have any concerns about Gene's proposed change? I think it's a fine change. Ken? Yes, I think it's good. Great. Steve, any additions or modifications to this section?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 76</summary>

> Yeah, I'd like to propose two paragraphs after the first. Okay. So the first paragraph ends with a citation of the working groups report. Yes. I'm suggesting to add a paragraph that basically highlights the differences between the working group report and what the board's recommendation to town meeting is, specifically the reduction in height limits in the neighborhood multifamily district, the minimum parking requirements, and the map changes along Mass Ave East of Orvis Road.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Others - 176</summary>

> I think that's fine. There are several others, but I think perhaps these are the most substantive, so perhaps the, whether it's largest or- Yeah, so that's why the sentence begins, these differences include. Right. So I- That's right, because you're referencing the substantive differences that you- Right. Identified before. Okay. And the second paragraph would just be to, because there's been much talk and hubbub about capacity, I'd like to have a paragraph that provides the number of acres, the capacity of the proposed district, the number of existing dwellings, the difference between the existing conditions and model capacity, and how many parcels we think will be redeveloped over the next 10 years along with a net change in units. And I'm willing to work out the numbers for the last two. Okay. I'm in favor of that. I think that more data, Claire, what are your thoughts on that one? Sure. I'm happy to make that change. I think more data is better. Yeah. Could you just repeat that list, please? Is that okay?
</details>
<details><summary>	 All - 524</summary>

> Sure. So what I was suggesting was the addition of a paragraph that would read something like as follows. The proposal before town meeting has a capacity of blank units on blank acres. The multifamily district has approximately blank existing dwellings, such that the difference between existing conditions and model capacity is blank units. If adopted, the board anticipates that blank parcels would be redeveloped over the next 10 years, leading to a net increase of blank new units. And I'm suggesting these just because they're all things that I've heard on numerous occasions, you know, statistics of that people are interested in. My only concern is that it's a challenge to put a specific number to the anticipated number of parcels. Oh, it would be a range. Range. Okay. I just wanted to make sure that. Oh, absolutely. It would be a range. Yes. Both in terms of parcels and number of net new. And you would add the word projected, some of that? Projected range? Or something like... Anticipates. That's fine. It's pretty good. How about projects the potential for blank range parcels? Yes. Okay. There's no way of us knowing. I mean, anticipates is perhaps a stronger... Right. Yeah. Projects is fine. Yes. Okay. You know, and I think the question will be, you know, is it 100? Is it 1,000? Is it 10,000? You know, from having crunch numbers, I think it's closer. If I had to pick one of those, I would pick 100. But it's probably closer to 10,000. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. It's more? Than 10,000. Mm-hmm. But it's probably more than 100. Not a whole lot more. But it's way under 1,000. Yeah. Fair enough. Okay. Can I make one proposed change to the first paragraph that you suggested?  So, where you talk about the substantive differences between the Working Groups Recommendation and the main motion before town meeting. What I'd like to do is reference why the Redevelopment Board made that change. And so, the text I was wanting us to discuss adding was, so the differences, if I go back to, again, your wording here, is the substantive differences between the Working Groups Recommendation and the main motion before town meeting add that were adopted as a result of continued dialogue between the ARB and the members of the public who attended the many public outreach sessions, the Department of Planning and Community Development, the town's planning consultant, and the members of the Working Group. Sounds good. Okay. Okay. Yep. Okay. No. Nope. Wait, wait, wait. Yep. It was more than that. Then let's add to it. So, for the height limits, I've forgotten the exact wording that's in the guidance, but the height limits are more contextual to the side streets than the proposed height limits. The minimum parking requirement is consistent with reports that have been done throughout the region, and the map changes because we think it's important to rezone, so the things that we talked about at the last meeting.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Others - 419</summary>

> Okay. So, let's add that in now. So, specifically, let's do them in order, that they're in there. So the first, so Steve defines what those are after that sentence that I added in, and then I think we add in a section that says the ARB adopted these changes due to the, let's start with the height in the multi-family district, the neighborhood multi-family, so the ARB adopted these changes. So, here's the language from the guidance that I think we can use. Okay. Due to the scale density and aesthetic of the neighborhood district. Thank you. In the neighborhood district. In the neighborhoods. Neighborhoods. In the existing neighborhoods. Of the proposed neighborhood. Is it existing or adjacent neighborhoods?  Well, it's... Existing and adjacent neighborhoods, yeah. So, it's really the neighborhoods in which the overlay is going to be, right?  Okay. The next is the minimum parking to maintain consistency. Across the town, and because studies have shown that one space per unit is appropriate, and because they can be reduced with a transportation demand management plan. Oh, that's right. To maintain... To maintain... Okay. Okay, so I'll reference A, B, to maintain consistency across town in accordance with MAPC parking study guidelines, or parking study... Conclusions. And because they can be reduced with transportation demand management plans. I get a whole bunch of typos, and I'm really going to apologize for it, Claire. It's okay. Okay. And C... This is the change in MAP to... To maximize the potential in... To allow... We shouldn't have said, to allow a process to rezone that part of Mass Ave. without having just imposed... The East Arlington Business District. Right. As a complete district rather than piecemeal at this time. In a holistic manner. Thank you. Okay. As to Steve, I also thought we needed to put in capacity in acres, so I think that's the right thing to do. Do we know what they are at this point? Didn't you do that survey? Well, we changed the map. Okay, so you have to redo that survey. So, well, there's... Yeah, it's... Has Uteal told us the capacity in the acres? What is it? The capacity is 3,216 units. 3,216 on 115.6 acres. Great, thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. And I can fill in the other blanks tonight. Great. If you send me the spreadsheet. Yep. I think I reported the info to you. 115.6 acres. Okay. Any other modifications to the discussion section under Article 12?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 166</summary>

> Okay. Anything else on the report in general before I ask for a motion? Okay. The only thing that I will just note for the record is that this... We will take a vote to... We will take a vote to deliver this report to special town meeting. The only thing, again, that I'll note is that this will be amended once town meeting starts, once the hearing is complete for Article 13 on October 16th. So we'll do an addendum? We will need to do an addendum for that article. Okay. So is there a motion to approve and deliver the Arlington Redevelopment Board report to 2023 special town meeting as amended this evening? So moved. Is there a second? Second. We'll take a vote starting with Ken. Yes. Gene. Yes. Steve. Yes. And I'm a yes as well. Thank you all and thank you again to Claire and Marissa and everyone in the department for pulling this together so quickly. Thank you. Much appreciated.
</details></details>
<details><summary>New Business</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 20</summary>

> Okay. Let's move to the next agenda item, which is new business. And I'll hand it over to you, Claire.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 107</summary>

> Great. So in conversation with the chair of the working group, we knew that there would have to be at some point a vote to disband this body. The ARB voted to establish the working group on November 7th of last year, and the recommendation is that we vote to or you vote to disband the working group as of the beginning of the special fall 2023 special town meeting. And we know that the working group members wanted to still attend precinct and other meetings as members of the working group, but that once town meetings started, they were okay with the solution of the group.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 138</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Claire. So I'll open it up for discussion. And one question I would have is should we disband it at the start of special town meeting or at the end of special town meeting in case any other questions potentially arise? Because I know that these will not be the first articles that are taken up. It's probably a good idea to say at the conclusion of the special town meeting. Okay. Great. Any discussion starting with Ken? No. Gene?  No. Steve? Nothing. Great. Is there a motion to disband the MBTA communities working group at the conclusion of fall 2023 special town meeting? So motion. Is there a second? Second. We'll take a vote starting with Ken. Yes. Gene? Yes. Steve? Yes. And I'm a yes as well. Thank you. Thank you, Claire.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Open Forum</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 107</summary>

> And at this time, we'll move to agenda item number three, which is open forum. So at this time, any member of the public who's joining us this evening who wishes to speak, please raise your hand. You'll have up to three minutes to address the board. And we have a location for you right over here, and we'll pull a microphone over. Please, yes, so that way we can pick up the microphone for the recording or your voice on the microphone for the recording. And if you could please introduce yourself with your first, last name and address for the record, that would be great.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Jordan Weinstein - 353</summary>

> Thank you. I'm Jordan Weinstein. I live at 23 Lennon Road here in Arlington. I was going to say Lexington for some reason. Arlington. This is not the ultimate. It's sort of the penultimate conclusion of a long involvement from the outside, anyway, as a town meeting member and a resident and property owner in Arlington to be following this whole debate. And I'm pleased that the Better Angels and the perceptions of the minds of the ARB were set in motion and were able to see what I felt was an excessive plan that was handed to you, and an enlarged plan that was unnecessarily large, for a couple of reasons. And I'm glad that you all voted to reduce the heights in the neighborhoods and also to add parking, all of which has helped to reduce what was initially thought to be a capacity of 20,000, 15,000, and then ultimately probably closer to 7,500 capacity, down to about 3,000, which is about 150% of the required capacity that the MBTA Act, which I call the MBTA Gentrification Act, because that's really what I think it is. What disappoints me about this whole process, to be honest, is the wrapping of it, the packaging of it, as almost a social justice presentation to correct the injustices of zoning that has historically been looked on, at least now in retrospect, as exclusionary and not inclusive. And I agree with those characterizations of what suburban America has become and how it's used zoning to exclude minorities and poor people. My problem with this, though, is that the way I perceive it and the language that the state has handed to us, the mandate, has nothing to do with affordability. If our application with the state for our own affordable overlay, as it is now, 15% of six units or more, is rejected, and I just want to point out that Lincoln's has been rejected, and they started well before we did, we're going to be probably, most likely, we're going to have an overlay that's going to have a much reduced inclusionary zoning, 10%.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 71</summary>

> You're out of time. Thank you. Okay. Thanks so much. I think that it's just disingenuous, the way this whole thing has been rolled out. You've been heard. Thank you. Anyone else wishing to speak this evening?  Please. Got a table and everything. Yes. Kicking it up a notch tonight. Putting my timer on. I think you guys have done a great job. I'm sorry, could you just introduce yourself?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Susan Stamps - 266</summary>

> I'm sorry. Susan Stamps, 39 Grafton Street. Thank you. I think you've done a great job, and the only thing that I and Green Streets Arlington is not thrilled about is, you won't be surprised to hear, is your removal of the planning department's sites recommendation for the environmental bonus versus you put in the LEED gold. And I really want to be supportive of everything you've done. And I'm not an architect. I don't know about LEED or sites, but I do know about Google. I have been able to do some research, and I'm not seeing how LEED gold is giving us any of the environmental outside benefits that we were looking for, the sustainable landscaping, climate resilience, rain gardens, trees, bushes, all kinds of good stuff in the setbacks. And I know that this isn't a dialogue, but we are very concerned about that. We'd like to talk maybe doing a friendly amendment on the floor of town meeting, or maybe I can just be better educated on what you're suggesting. And then I'll feel fine about it. So I just wanted to say that I very much respect all of you and I'm open to the idea that this that that the Suggestion of lead gold did include outdoor kinds of environmental enhancements that we were looking for And if if if that's the case I would be and I in Green Streets Arlington would be most appreciative of some communication or Opportunity to find out what the thinking is on that. Thank you Thank you Anyone else wishing to speak please
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kristen Anderson - 341</summary>

> My name is Kristen Anderson I live at 12 up in the road West and I just wanted to say that I've spent a lot of time watching how this elegant sausage has been made and I'm really happy that the ARB has chosen to protect existing businesses and create a pathway for planning in the future for more commercial groups And that was the thing I was most concerned about from the start it's the thing I remain concerned about so, thank you Thank you Anyone else wishing to speak, please? Grant cook Wallace to nav on the topic of social justice I was really gratified walking in East Arlington today to see a Support MBTA community sign on the front yard of the Calvary Church And I know what has been talking about targeting churches to see a church take that lead in social justice was really refreshing I'll use another story about wealth You know, there's a house on the market right now just across the border of Winchester It was a one minute. So kind of what you call your Affordable house in Arlington, which means it's sold for a million dollars The house most of us actually in this room probably live in about that price It got torn down and turned into a 2.7 million dollar house at least listed that is wealth now six or seven people could get together in multifamily spend seven fifty eight hundred a million on condos and Truly afford homes and they could outbid that 2.7 million dollar wealthy person But we've rigged the game So the only thing that exists is that 2.7 million dollar house that is the protection of wealth and the system we've built With our reliance on single-family and I'm glad to see the start of rolling that back And I hope as we touch the east and touch the heights where I live we do much more of it So good start. Thank you. Thank you Anyone else wishing to speak this evening
</details></details>
<details><summary>Adjourn</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 125</summary>

> Okay with that we will close public comment and Susan I know that you had some specific questions and if you'd like to reach out or Stay afterwards. We'd be happy to go through a little bit more about the lead sustainable sites sections and also some of the alternative compliance paths, which we built in in addition to lead into the proposed MBTA communities piece So with that Back to my agenda Are there any other items from the board? Then I will see if there is a motion to adjourn So motion second second take a vote starting with kin. Yes, Jean. Yes, Steve Yes, and I'm a yes as well. Thank you all for joining us tonight. This meeting is adjourned You
</details></details>