### Arlington Redevelopment Board - August 28, 2023  [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AjbzqnuC1k8) [agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1910&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda)

<details><summary>Meeting Minutes</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 182</summary>

> Agenda item number one is the review of meeting minutes. We have two sets of meeting minutes to roll through tonight. The first is the set of meeting minutes from July 10th, 2023, and I will run through and see if there are any additions or corrections starting with Gene. No additions or corrections. Thank you. Steve? No additions or corrections. Ken? Not this one. I don't think. Nope. Not this one. Okay. Great. Thank you. And I have no additions or corrections either. Is there a motion to approve the meeting minutes from July 10th, 2023 as submitted? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Thank you. I'll second. Thank you, Gene. We will take a roll call vote starting with Ken. Yes. Gene? Yes. Steve?  Yes. And I'm a yes as well. The meeting minutes from July 10th have been approved. We'll now move to the meeting minutes from July 24th, 2023, and I will again ask for any additions or corrections starting with Gene. No additions or corrections. Thank you, Gene. Steve? No additions or corrections. And Ken?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau - 273</summary>

> I think I had one. Okay. I can't seem to find it, though. It's on page four. Okay. I just want to add. Do you have that one, or no? I have it in front of me, yeah. Okay. It said, Mr. Lau replied that the driveway wouldn't narrow. It would only eliminate parking. I meant, I think I was referring to putting the street trees in the parking space, not in the landscaping strip along the sidewalk, which Jean was referring to at that time. So how would you like to edit this? So we're on the third paragraph from the bottom, Claire, on page four. So planting them in the parking lane would require narrowing the already narrowed streets, which seems unlikely. Mr. Lau replied that the driveline wouldn't be narrowed. It would only eliminate parking. So I said that the street trees could be parked in the parking spaces, eliminating parking, but not narrowing the street, or something along those lines. That was one proposal. The trees would only eliminate parking. They would not narrow the driveline, is what your intent was? No. I think Jean was talking to narrowing the planting strip along there, and then potentially narrowing the street. And I'm not saying, no, just move the tree right into the parking, if there is parking, and then leaving the driveway and the street alone. But that the buffer would need to be built in where there's currently parking? Correct. Okay. Sorry if that didn't make any, it still doesn't make much, but you know what I'm saying. I know what you're saying. Yep. Buffer. Got it. Yeah.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 64</summary>

> All right. Is there any other additions or corrections? No. Great. All right. We have a motion to approve the meeting minutes from July 24th, 2023, as amended. So motioned. I'll second. Thank you. We'll take a roll call vote, starting with Ken. Yes. Jean. Yes. Steve. Yes. And I'm a yes as well. The meeting minutes from July 24th, 2023, have been approved.
</details></details>
<details><summary>1306-1308 Massachusetts Avenue - Docket #3760</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 204</summary>

> All right. Let's now move to our second agenda item, which is the public hearing for docket number 3760-1306 to 1308 Massachusetts Avenue. Do we have the applicant with us this evening?  Okay. Great. Thank you so much. So for everyone joining us, what we will do this evening is we will provide the applicant with up to 10 minutes for any type of introductory presentation that you would like to make. I'll then turn it over to Claire from the Department of Planning and Community Development, who might have an overview of information for us. We'll then turn this over to the board for any questions that they might have for you. We'll have some initial discussion. We'll open this up for public comment. And then the board will decide whether or not to take a vote this evening or if there's any additional information that's required. Okay. So with that, if I could invite the representative from the applicant forward, the microphone's right here in front of us. You're more than welcome to make any presentation you would like. And Claire would be happy to pull up anything you might want to see from the application on the screen as well.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 427</summary>

> Okay. Awesome. I'll do my best. Sean, I need you to come help me do this presentation. I'm not seeing any screen. Can I help you? If you'd like. I've got Zoom here, but I can't access it. Oh, I see. Yeah. And I've got Zoom here as well. We'll have technical assistance. He'll be here in a minute. Thank you. I apologize. It's all right. There he is. Right here. Thank you so much, Sean. Because I'm not able to click on the window that Gene is on. Ah, there he is. Great. Thank you. Excellent. All right. What screen? What would you like me to start with? Just the plans? Just the plans. Okay. Screen sharing. Why isn't it showing me? And it's even harder when everyone's waiting. I know. I'm so sorry. No, it's not your fault. We're all using a new system this evening. We're temporarily in this room, so I appreciate your patience. It will not cut into your time of presentation. No, no. It certainly won't. It certainly won't. Sean, this still isn't working for me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. Madam Director, is it possible the document is in one of the other tabs? It's possible. So they can see this at home, but I can't see it up there on the screen. Oh, it's two different screens. Okay. There we go. That'll do it. Fantastic. So it's two screens. I can make it duplicate. So whatever you see on this is up there. That would be great. Gotcha. That would be very useful. Thank you. Oh, if there's any, like, communication, that would be up there. Okay. Hold on. Is that the plan you wanted to see? I believe it's missing some. It's in the signage. It's the signage. Let me just go there. You can just go to the first page. There we go. It's getting to duplicate. Okay, that's fine. Excellent. All right. Are you wanting to look at the site plan or the floor plan at A104? A104? A104? That's the floor plan. A104 is the floor plan. Yep, a little bit. A little more. It's just the site plan. I don't know why it's not rendering. You can go ahead and get started. No, it's fine. Yeah, if you wanted to go ahead, we have it all electronically. If you're okay with speaking to it while Claire tries to pull that up, we can go ahead. Okay, sounds good. Thank you. If you could just introduce yourself, that would be fantastic. Okay. Thank you. Absolutely.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Natalia Quirino - 238</summary>

> Hello, my name is Natalia Quirino. I'm the designer for the project at 1306-1308 Mass Ave. Here with me, we have the applicant, which is Ricardo Batista. The proposed design consists of an interior renovation for an existing retail space, where we're proposing a retail space as well, about 522 square feet, and also an office space. So just to clarify, 1306 is currently an office space, and 1308 is a retail space. What we're doing is pretty much just switching positions. So 1306 we're proposing to be a retail space, and then 1308 would be the office space. So the office space would be for the R.B. Farina Roofing Company, which is a company that's been serving the neighborhood for the past four years. So they're just pretending to expand the office facility to better assist the community, and also propose a showroom for the customers. We're not proposing any change on the footprint of the building. No exterior work will be done, just a new sign for the R.B. Farina Roofing, and no structure work will be done as well. So all the beams and columns will remain as existing. It's just going to be interior partitions for office spaces. The building will be ADA compliant, so we have two ADA bathrooms, and also two restrooms for the employees. I believe that's all. Okay. If you have any questions, I'm happy to, yeah, there you go.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 25</summary>

> Okay, great. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Claire, did you have anything to bring to the attention of the board regarding this application?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Richter - 228</summary>

> Sure. So this is an application for a special permit for the board to review and approve the change of use from retail to a commercial office of greater than 3,000 square feet in the B3 Village business. There is some signage that is associated with this project. We received a drawing that shows the dimension of the signs, but no detail or section and no indication of whether or not the sign is going to be internally illuminated. So that would be, you know, on the recommendation of the board. If that is a future something you'd like to assign to staff or have the applicant come back to talk about the signage, we could do that. The other thing I'd like to point out is that there are no parking spaces that are associated with the storefront, but that is typical. They did not submit a parking plan, but, you know, I believe the parking that is available here is the public street. A new office would require seven spaces with two short-term bike parking spaces, two long-term bike parking spaces. I think the board may be interested in considering requiring some interior bike parking and or bike storage on the site, but the public parking on Mass Ave. and public bike rack facilities right now are what is being proposed for parking and bike parking.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 32</summary>

> Great. Thank you very much. Sure. So we'll go ahead and open this up to any questions that the board might have for you and your team. Great. We'll start with Ken.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau - 201</summary>

> Do you guys own the building or are you guys renting the building and fitting it out? We're buying. You're buying the building?  We actually got it. Yeah, last December. Okay. Congratulations. It's ours. I'm just going to ask. I know that it's not convenient, but when you're responding, if you wouldn't mind just coming up to the microphone so that we can pick that up, that would be great. Thank you so much. That's okay. Thank you. You guys probably know much better than I do, but you guys have like a moat in the backyard right behind the building where there's a retaining wall and where the landscape comes down, and it's pretty. Are you guys planning to fix that up at all, or what are your plans for that back space? There's no real access from anywhere. You can't get it from anywhere but through your building, so it's pretty much landlocked back there, but it's a huge eyesore or insects grow in that swampy area. Are you guys going to clean it up and try to clear off the area drain or something like that so it just becomes a little more friendly to the neighborhood?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Natalia Quirino - 72</summary>

> Yeah, we're planning to clean it up. Absolutely, yeah. I was aware of this when we saw this pipeline. They probably knew before, so we actually talked about this, probably just clean it up. Okay. Yeah. If any retaining wall, I mean, we have also a structural engineer on the team, so if any retaining wall reinforcement is needed, we can also reinforce as required. I think the retaining wall looks fine.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau - 69</summary>

> The fact that it's all dilapidated, there's chunks of brick down there. There's got to be at least a couple inches of mud down there and just trash and debris, and the only way you get access to that is through your rear door. So I was hoping you guys would be good neighbors and sort of clean that area up a little bit. And, you know, maybe cut.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Natalia Quirino - 98</summary>

> Yes, I would just say that we are more than happy to try some activity that can enhance the area, not just making sure that that is clean and looking good, but also trying to, we cannot do that in a back, but also making sure that we can support the city with some bikes because we have the area across close to us, too, so we could have some kind of encouragement for the community to have some bikes and things like that. Yes, answering. We want to clean everything and make sure that that looks good.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau - 130</summary>

> Okay. Claire, can you pull up A104, please? Yes. It's the floor plan. A little further up. Right there? The first one?  Yes. Okay. If you look at that floor plan there where you have your marketing suite right there. The showroom in the front? Nope. In the middle. In the middle. Yes. There's AW marketing. I don't know. It gives you a ceiling idea, but that room there. Okay. There's actually a door there that you guys are infilling. There's a door that accesses out to the side. It goes to the driveway to the Citizens Bank. Do you guys have some sort of easement with them or you guys plan to get rid of that door and infill it with brick the way you're showing it here?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Natalia Quirino - 8</summary>

> Yes. We were planning to just infill it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau and Natalia Quirino - 690</summary>

> I might make a suggestion saying if you do have some sort of easement back there where you can use that as an access, I was going to suggest that maybe you have two bicycle parking there for long-term parking for your employees. If they choose to ride their bicycle to where they work, they don't have to drag it all the way through your showroom space and everything else. They can sort of access from the side maybe. In this way, you're encouraging some possibility of employees riding their bicycles when the weather is good. That might be a suggestion. If you can allocate some space inside. I know you have it extremely well laid out, but if you can find some space for at least two bicycle parking there, that would be nice. I think there might be access there. There's no other access besides the front door. I'm not even sure how you guys are dealing with the two means of egress because the front door is one. Where's your second? We have the back one. The what? The back door. It goes nowhere. You know what? There's no window back there. It's just a big pit. It's like a court. It's an unmaintained courtyard, basically. There's no access. You have a retaining wall. When you first go out that door on the left, you've got the building to your right. I think it's the back of the kitchen to the restaurant next door. Then you've got the hill. right behind you. So I'm not sure how you know get two means of egress out of that out of that space there, okay. I know it's a little out of our preview. It makes sense again if it can solve two. It affects how you have the front here laid out. So yeah absolutely we could definitely keep that door that we Well I'm not sure you can't keep that door. That door is not illegal, not a it's a pre-existing condition which if you have is a door but it's not a three-foot door it's up on a it has a curb to it. You'll have to work that through with the building department. I'm not saying it's our place to do that but but if you have to put a second means egress damage you have to put a rated quarter down the side somewhere and punch out with the door on one side of the other of the front of your building and I think that would affect how this whole thing looks. You have a nice-looking what you've done there looks nice okay but you know where to get a corridor in there you're gonna have to sacrifice something. Yeah but that wouldn't be a big deal I mean we thought about actually have other options for the layout and we thought about keeping the door so I that's something that I could yeah. So in the retail space you put a hallway along the back side of that on the side of that retail space so there'll be a hallway there and then and then you access the retail space from inside that little vestibule there similar to that? Could be. I think the retail space is small enough that it. But this whole space in these two means you regress. The larger space but the small retail space. Yeah but then you bring the quarter right here and that's your second means you regress to the two outrated hallway. That's not in our purview but I think that there is a payment plan. The code review might let us. Yes. For the retail space. Retail? Yes not a problem. It's below 500 square feet. It's nine. That's fine. Yeah. Okay that there you know I'm very pro this project I've seen that storefront empty for the longest time and putting something there is good and you know only thing I have is right now I'm assuming all your work trucks park somewhere else right? Where do the work trucks park right now? They have a parking lot in Malden. In Malden?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Natalia Quirino - 195</summary>

> Yes. Okay so that's where they have all their stock the ladders this staging and all the other stuff there so this is just administrative and showroom. Yeah we do have our operation department working in Malden where we have our parking lot to our trucks are always there. What we have here is that the sales team usually in the end of the afternoon or sometime in the middle of the day they need to stop by to get some material to deliver for customers or sample and then they have been parking at David Street up there after the Cambridge the bank. This is what they do. Sometimes they do park in a mass ave just to pick up something quickly and then leave but they don't really spend time in the office. Usually it's just the staff and management. This is how we are working. I see the parking lot a lot on the hill. Yes because we have eight almost nine sales members and then it's kind of switching every time it's one. That's all the comments I had for now. Okay great thank you Kim. Thank you for your answers.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 169</summary>

> So we'll now turn it over to Gene for any questions you might have. Yeah thank you and I also think it's a nice project and my only questions relate well some of my questions relate to the bicycle parking and that is do you think you'll be able to fit two inside bicycle parking spaces into the office area? Yes, two parking spaces for bicycles, yes. And I think outside you don't you don't really have any of your own property outside but maybe to be able to work with the town to see if there's a place to put an additional outside bicycle parking. Would that be okay? Yes that's okay. Great. For the for the retail space do you have any prospects to rent it? No we don't. Do you expect to have any exterior lighting? I didn't see any. No we're just doing just a sign. No lighting, no illuminated logo. Okay those are my only questions. Thank you. Thank you. Great thank you Gene.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Relevik - 244</summary>

> Steve. Thank you Madam Chair. Likewise I I recognize this particular storefront has been empty for quite a while and I'm really happy to see a new owner come in and make an investment. On the northeast corner of the property right next to it or right next to the northeast corner of the building there is a blue bicycle rack. Is that part of the property and is that staying or what is what are the yeah I guess is that bike parking area part of the property and what are the plans for it? I believe you mentioned right that's part of the the property we just planning to keep it. Just keep it yeah. Okay I think there's I think there's three or four spaces possibly there. I happen to know this because it is my favorite bike parking spot in the Heights. But it's it's quite convenient. But aside I do have one question about the sign. Director Ricker mentioned it wasn't a complete sign package. One thing to keep in mind that may come into play is the there's sort of a vertical spacing requirement for the sign in the sign band. You need 20% on top or 12 inches and 20% or 12 inches on the bottom whichever is less. I don't know the width of that sign band but you may I just suggest you know maybe consider centering it. And I think that's all I had.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 296</summary>

> Okay great thank you Steve. So the only comment I had as well was about the sign. So I think I would feel comfortable with moving for an administrative approval. But one thing which would mean that you would need to submit signage details to the Department of Planning and Community Development for their review and approval. As long as it falls within our guidelines in terms of the upper and lower spacing, the spacing from the sides and the actual size of the sign. You know the the department can approve it. If you're looking for any relief you would we would need to reopen this special permit application and you would need to come before us again. One thing that I just want to point out as you're working through the details I believe if I'm not mistaken that the there's a slight pitch to that that roof. So again that I think that's one of the reasons why we would like to see the sign detail to understand is this on a backer? Is this are you standing this off? How are you mounting this so that it's easily legible? And then I think too even just in looking at the sign here some of the black on that dark roofing material is is a little hard to read and I would encourage you just to think about again the legibility of the of the sign as you are working through those final details. You know a backer may actually wind up helping people to be able to read the sign or you know maybe think about whether you know again just taking a look on site at the black on that dark roofing color and whether or not that will project enough.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Natalia Quirino - 70</summary>

> Yeah absolutely. I'll check. The rendering never shows really the reality right? The rendering is always hard so that's why I'm just suggesting that that's something you take a look at before submitting the package to the department. Okay perfect. Yeah we'll make sure we're just gonna we just make sure we follow all the guidance for the sign so that way we don't need to get any special permit.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 97</summary>

> Okay great. Thank you. Are there any other questions for the applicant from the board before I open this up for public comment? I see Steve shaking his head no. No from Jean. Okay great. So at this time I would ask any member who is any member of the public who has joined us this evening if you'd like to make a comment on this hearing please raise your hand. Seeing none we'll close public comment for this hearing and I'll turn it back over to the board to see if there are any further questions.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 269</summary>

> I think first what I'd like to do is summarize what I heard as potential conditions to the approval of this of this docket. So one would be to work to submit a complete sign package to the Department of Planning and Community Development for administrative approval assuming you know with the caveat that it meets the requirements of the zoning the signage bylaw in the zoning bylaws. The second is to include two interior bike parking spaces and through the Department of Planning and Community Development you can also request our bike parking standards which have requirements for what type of what type of what's the word I'm looking for here Steve rack I guess yeah what type of interior bike racks are approved by the town. And the third was to work with the town to locate an exterior to see if you can locate an exterior bike parking location. And then the the fourth really I think is covered by one of our typical conditions which is again to work with the building department for all required all required reviews which would include the review of the location of that second means of egress. Thank you and the final condition would be to clean and maintain and ensure proper drainage of the rear courtyard. That sound like what you would intend? Okay anything else Ken in terms of conditions? No. Okay and so what the board would also be do doing at this point then is finding that we are in agreement with the with the change of use would be our finding for this hearing.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 103</summary>

> Madam Chair we also need to waive the automobile parking requirements as part of this which I think we would all do but it does need to be in the in the findings in the findings and special permit. I was a little unclear about the sign we are not issuing a sign permit as I understand they need to go back and file the materials to get a sign permit with planning and community development who will then decide if they can administratively approve it or if it will have to come back to the board. So I just wanted that clarification.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 10</summary>

> Correct that is that is the intent of the condition.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 204</summary>

> Yes. All right I'd like to point out one other thing and I'm not saying this to fault the applicant but and because it's in all three of the applications today if you look at the required submittal checklist on the second page I think it's on a different tab. That's okay I'll just say what it is. There's a required submittal checklist the second page has a checkbox that's not checked that says sustainable building and site design elements. Two parts of it neither of which they did. The first part is the solar energy systems assessment in which they either have to do the assessment or give a detailed explanation of why the project meets an exemption. Because they didn't do it I looked and I believe they meet an exemption for change of use so I'm not going to raise this as an issue but I want to just point this out that in the future if people don't check off these boxes they should be told that they're not going to be able to go forward with this. So in this case I don't think it matters because it's easy to figure out the exemption is a change of use.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 34</summary>

> Okay thank you Gene. Okay great and just to reiterate where we are waiving the requirement for parking on site that is relative to section 6.1.5 in the zoning bylaws for record. Okay Steve.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Relivek - 59</summary>

> Yes Madam Chair going back to the proposed list of conditions the work the applicant the proposal that the applicant work with the town to find a place to provide bicycle parking. If I understood the applicant earlier they oh the property already has a like a bike or a rack installed and they were planning to keep it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Various - 169</summary>

> Okay great so we will eliminate that condition. Steve that rack is not theirs. The rack to the left off the sidewalk? Yes. There's a four bike parking rack? No that's not. Only a portion of that is on their property. Three of the park three the bike parking spaces are on the bank property and I believe I'm not sure who owns that but when we approved the restaurant that bar up there they fixed the bricks down there before it was all torn apart. Someone went and fixed all that brick and it was not the owner it was not the previous owner so I want to make it clear that that four spaces there for the bicycle parking which I think it's a great space it's a great location but it's not part of their property. Okay well in that case I should retract my suggestion thank you. You can see it on your site plan when you look at it it's not within your property.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 249</summary>

> Okay so again to so are there any other comments from the board before we make a motion for approval? Okay seeing none I will ask if there is a motion to approve excuse me let me just pull up the docket number approve docket number 3760 the application for 1306 to 1308 Massachusetts Avenue with the conditions as previously stated I'll recap those to include two interior bike bicycle parking locations to work with the town to see if you can locate an exterior bike parking rack on your property to to clean maintain and ensure proper drainage in the rear courtyard and to submit a full signage package to the Department of Planning and Community Development for review and approval those would be the conditions and we would find that the Redevelopment Board approves the change of use and also is willing to waive the on-site parking requirements due to the inability to create them on your site per section 6.1.5 in the zoning bylaws. Is there a motion? So motioned. Is there a second? Gene I think you're muted but I think I saw your mouth say I second that's okay thank you we'll take a roll call vote starting with Ken yes Gene yes Steve yes and I'm a yes as well congratulations and we really look forward to seeing you take over that space so thank you all right so that closes the public hearing for docket number 3760 1306 to 1308 Massachusetts Avenue
</details></details>
<details><summary>355 Massachusetts Avenue - Docket #3759</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 70</summary>

> will now move to public hearing the public hearing for docket number 3759 355 Massachusetts Avenue. Thank you. And as the applicants change places I believe that you heard the order of business well we'll take this hearing in the in the same in the same fashion so I would invite you if you could introduce yourself and you'll have up to 10 minutes for a presentation to the board.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Seth Morrissey - 788</summary>

> Sure hi my name is Seth Morrissey I'm an architect at Olson Lewis Architects and I'm representing Dr. Sarah Courtney and Mr. Matthew Owens for their plans to renovate 355 Mass Ave. Dr. Sarah Courtney currently runs her business out of the first floor and she wishes to renovate the residential unit above to be her own residence for her young family. There is no change of use there was there has been a business there for around 50 years on the first floor and the bulk of this work is mainly focused on the second and third floor but in doing and making these spaces more livable for our young family and more safe we've ended up renovating much of the exterior to meet today's standard of living and bring a more aesthetic pleasing look to the neighborhood. If you could pull up the existing photos, I think that gives a good picture of, you know, some of the issues that we were looking at with the existing site. So the building hasn't been, has been touched many times over the years. There's been various additions to the back, enclosing multiple porches, which have different levels and heights, which have caused a lot of water damage to occur in the existing spaces. So the idea in the addition is to add some space to the second floor and clean up a lot of the roof lines on the rear of the building. We intend to keep the existing height of the main ridge the same, but extend the main ridge all the way through to the back of the building, simplifying the massing of the site. I think if you go up to the elevations, we can, there's a colored one, should be a 2.0. Please. Sorry. Nope. I think it's a 2.1. 2.1. Yep. Yep. So that's page 24. Sorry. Page 23. I'm going to crash. Hold on just a second. Okay. So since we started renovating the, our plan was to renovate the second and third floor, we ended up replacing, planning to replace the windows on the first floor to match the new windows. We're replacing the vinyl siding with the new four-inch clavards, typical of the residential neighborhood surrounding it. I apologize. That's okay. There we go. There we go. One more. Can you go up one more page? Yep. One more page? Please. Yeah. Please. I don't see what I should do. Doing a great job. I'm waiting. Maybe that's the PDF. Sorry. It is a big PDF. Adobe just changed its format, too, and it's been a little temperamental for me. I used Luby. Luby is better. You know, I was going to say, I'm going to try to make this work. It took a while to get used to. Yeah. Let me try to just reopen this. You know, we can't see what's on the screen, but if you tell us the page number, I think we can do that. So, if you flip to... There we go. Yeah, page number 23, Gene. I have 96. Okay. Well, 23 of the individual PDF. Oh, okay. So... Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, page 2.1? Yes. Yeah. Okay. I've got that. Great. I'm totally frozen, Gene. That's okay. I'm fine. That's okay. We all have a... Hold up. So, if you... Yeah. I'll just start this... I can just start to describe it. Yeah, that's fine. And I'll look on with Ken. Yep. So, in drawing A, the Mass Ave elevation, we have added a porch cover over the existing stone porch that is there, just to add a little bit more character and make the entrance a little bit more inviting. The main gable still is there, as you can see in the front, and we've just replaced the windows with more traditional double-hung windows as opposed to some of the larger windows that were there existing. At all the bay windows, we are adding paneling under a paneling detail below, just because it is a typical detail when you're dealing with a hardy blank clabbered. You'll see on the rear elevation that we are adding another covered porch, too, which this will be the client's main access into our apartment, again, creating a more inviting entrance to their existing space. Great. Is there another sheet you want to make an attempt to put up? I think that's it. I mean, I think we'll be adding dormers on the third floor, just to help to give the client more space, but overall, the goal was to simplify the structure and make it a little bit more appealing.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 50</summary>

> Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, you did a good job making it more appealing. Thank you. That's a very nice project. Appreciate it. Yes. So, Claire, I will turn it over to you for any comments you might have before we open it up to the board.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Richter - 229</summary>

> Yes. Great. Thank you. This is a great project. So, this is an application by Matt DeMello of DeMello Fine Building and Woodworking for a special permit under the jurisdiction of the ARB. The applicant seeks approval of significant exterior renovation in addition of a covered portion mixed-use building on Massachusetts Avenue. I think if there's anything that I wanted to point out to the board, again, it's bike parking. There's none proposed, as this is also a residence, and the driveway for the building serves the residence. I'm not sure exactly how the driveway also serves the business, but there is ample parking, again, on Massachusetts Avenue that has been used successfully by this business for years. I think that's it. I think, you know, with respect to Mr. Benson's comments earlier, I did speak with Seth a bit about solar. I believe this roof is going to be solar-ready, if not solar-installed. I believe the owner is taking a look at what it would cost to install solar, but that the roof that is going on could certainly handle it. This is not a historic building, and the use has been in place since at least 1980. You know, and in terms of, I think, any efficiency or LEED standards, obviously, it looks like we'll be doing ENERGY STAR-certified appliances, mechanical systems, et cetera. Great. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 30</summary>

> Thank you, Claire. All right. And I'll turn it over to the board for any questions, starting with Ken. I have none. It's a very nice project. I support it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau or Gene Benson - 135</summary>

> Great. Thank you,Ken. Gene. Yeah. I don't have any questions, other than one. I justwondered if she'd be, and I don't think we would require this, ifshe'd be interested in putting a bike rack somewhere there so herclients, customers, whatever, she terms them who ride up on a bikehave a place to lock their bike. We did discuss it a little bit, andthe way the site now is, there's a kind of a small retaining wall. Soyou'd actually have to do a pretty decent amount of work to actuallycreate that space. And again, we would prefer not to have it in theback, in the driveway, because that is her residence. And that's, Imean, we're open to it, but it's just, it seems like it would be morework than expected. Okay. Thanks. Yep. Just asking. Yep.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 103</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Gene. Steve? No questions of Adam Tara. Great. Thank you. So at this point, I'll open this up for public comment. Anyone who's joined us this evening, if you wish to speak, if you could raise your hand. All right. Seeing none, we will close public comment. And I will turn this over to the board to see if there is any additional discussion. I'm not tracking any special conditions at this point, but I will start with Kim. None. Gene? None. Steve?  None. Great. None. Great. Is there a motion to, let me pull up the docket number.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Seth Morrissey - 57</summary>

> I had one more request. Please. So in doing this planning process, the client has actually moved out of our business and hasn't been able to work in the office. And we're looking to kind of fast track this a little bit more, so we're seeking approval for the waive of the 20-day appeal period as well.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 301</summary>

> That, I don't think we can waive, unfortunately. I apologize. Okay. Yep. So... We told you in the past... Sorry. Please go ahead, Kim. You can proceed at your risk. Proceed at your risk? Yes. Is that something the board would be willing to do? Well, that's not up to us. Okay. We say proceed at your risk. Yes. Proceed at your risk. We're not going to punish you for it. All it is, is someone, a neighbor or something, would come up and want to say no. Right. And they can challenge you, of course. I've seen other projects do that if they want to streamline it, they should proceed it at their own risk, right? So if I approach the building inspector and say that you guys are okay with us proceeding at risk?  Well, I mean, no. I mean, you'd still have to pull a building permit. Yeah. Of course. So, again, we had talked about the fact that you could pull a separate interior versus exterior permit. That's really the only thing that we can provide you the opportunity for. Okay. Yep. Great. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Anything else?  Nope. That was it. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We'll move on to docket number 3759 for 355 Massachusetts Avenue. So motioned. Is there a second? I'll second with the conditions that Claire had added to her memo. The usual conditions. Yes. The usual conditions. Yes. Those are all. Thank you. No special conditions. No. Thank you. Right. Okay. So we'll take a vote starting with Ken. Yes. Gene. Yes. Steve. Yes. And I'm a yes as well. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm a yes as well. Congratulations. Docket number 3759 has been approved and is now closed. Thank you. Thank you.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Calyx Peak, 251 Summer Street - Docket #3752</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 48</summary>

> All right. We will now move on to agenda item number four, which is the public hearing for docket number 3752 Calix Peak at 251 Summer Street. I don't believe we have anyone from the applicant here this evening. So Claire, I will turn this over to you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Richter - 421</summary>

> Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. At 1035 this morning, I received an email from the proponent asking that this hearing be continued at least until October 2nd. They asked for potentially a meeting in September, but this board will be doing, at that point, will be occupied with public hearings related to Falltown meeting and any zoning amendments that are suggested there. So at the discretion of the board, if they'd wish to continue the hearing to the 2nd, that is a request directly from the project proponent. DPCD did write a memo related to this project as proposed, which you have in front of you. There have been some requests from the property owner and the project applicant requesting, or at least asking the board if they would be willing to evaluate this project on its own merits, on the Calix Peak side of the property versus the auto sales side of the property. The property owner currently does not wish to make improvements on the side of the property that he will be using. Calix Peak intends to move forward with improvements that they have, you know, designed and put in front of this board, even in the first hearing. So a question I have is, would this, you know, it is my speaking with Doug Heim, it is at the discretion of the board if they're willing to do this, if you're willing to evaluate this project in that way. I will also point out that the project, you know, as sort of proposed to be reviewed by the proponent, has not been in front of the Select Board, Health and Human Services, or Arlington Police Department at this time. The presentation that was made to those groups showed a single business in that building, Calix Peak, the cannabis dispensary, without, you know, co-location of the auto sales. It is, I'm trying to think of how to say this, I think this project can be reviewed on its own merits. Certainly, if the board is willing to evaluate a project on half the site, again, I think it's to the discretion of the board, and I would also like to point out, you know, this is not anything that has gone back in front of the Select Board at this time.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 208</summary>

> Thank you. Claire, just to clarify, the project that was reviewed and approved by the Select Board, though, was the full development of the site? It showed the full development of the site with one business in the existing building. Okay, thank you for that clarification. You're welcome. Okay. So, with that, I'd like to turn it over to the board for discussion. I think there are two points that we need to come to a consensus on. The first is over whether or not we feel that this needs to go back in front of the Select Board, Health and Human Services, and the APD before we review it, whether or not we feel that the changes as proposed are substantial enough that it needs to be re-reviewed in terms of the host agreement status, and the second is whether, if we decide that it does not need that, would we then be willing to, that we would, you know, be able to review it in its altered state, would we then be willing to continue the hearing to October 22nd? So, those are the two items that the board would discuss with each other. That's correct, Madam Chair. Great. Thank you. And we'll start with Ken.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau - 89</summary>

> My opinion is no, that we would ask them to start over again because there's enough change to this project that you need to go back to the Select Board, the police department, public, all the different agencies that you mentioned, Claire. Health and Human Services. Health and Human Services, and establish that, come back with a new plan for us, and then for us to review then. With an understanding that they control that portion of the site that they're looking to work on. Great. Thank you. Ken.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 273</summary>

> Gene. I think that it's not our decision whether it needs to go back to the Select Board for a new community agreement, or APD, or to Health and Human Services. It's the decision of the Select Board, APD, and Health and Human Services, so I would want to know whether they need to review this again, whether they need a new community agreement or not. If all of them say that they're comfortable with this new proposal and they don't need to review it again, then I would be comfortable in reviewing a new proposal, but not the proposal that we've gotten up to this point, because I can't imagine what it's going to be like with the auto sales place on one side and the Calix Peak on the other. What are they going to do with the driveways, for example? So I would need to understand what that is. The other thing, which I was going to raise if they were here tonight, is we don't have in our record the traffic study, and therefore we could not make a decision on a traffic study that only went to the Select Board. And that traffic study is a few years old now, and if anything, traffic has gotten worse as the pandemic has slowly wound down, and I think it was based on only having the Calix Peak business there. So my opinion is we would need an entire new traffic study done based on the two businesses continuing to operate and current traffic conditions. So that's the other thing that I would like to see also out of this.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Relivek - 51</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Gene. Steve. Thank you, Madam Chair. I, like Mr. Benson, I would defer to the Select Board, APD, and Health and Human Services whether they felt, you know, a second review was necessary. If they did not, I would be okay with reviewing the project on its merits.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 152</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Steve. I believe that the question is, do we, a corollary question to that, because I also agree. I think that we should ask them to approach those three departments and confirm as to whether or not that should be, will be required. Do we feel that the project has changed enough that rather than continue the hearing, we would like them to reapply? Because it is a substantially different project at this point. It is two businesses as opposed to, if they are granted the permission by those three bodies to continue on with the original host agreement, would we want them to come in with a new, completely new application? Correct. And I am leaning towards that for several of the reasons that Gene brought up and, you know, again, the fact that this has significantly altered in terms of the application itself. So, Ken, your thoughts?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau - 114</summary>

> Yeah. I would just say for them to go back. Come back when you're ready. Yeah. Yep. And if the boards say... you know, the original agreement was fine, then just process it through like you normally do it. But it's, it's not. Well, we could close this hearing this evening. I'd like to close it. Yes. That would be my suggestion, to close it and have them resubmit. Great. Once they get approval from all the different boards and go from there. And they've canceled us three times now. Yes. I mean. This is the third. This is the. Come back when it's a more formed project. Yes. Yes. Okay. Gene, your thoughts?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 31</summary>

> I could go either way. I could also just say, if they want to put in a completely revised proposal under this current application, I would be fine with that too.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 83</summary>

> Thank you, Gene. I'd go either direction. Steve? I'll agree with Mr. Lyle. Okay. So is there a, I think we would need to vote to, would we? Close this docket. Do we have to, we could close it. Actually, that's a good question. This is a, this is a sort of a technical question. Do, does the applicant need to withdraw? Or can we withdraw on the applicant's behalf? I'm not, not entirely positive we can, but I don't know for sure.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Richter - 51</summary>

> I think the applicant would have, excuse me, if this is, this is Claire, Steve. I think the applicant would have to withdraw and I'm happy to convey that message to the applicant, but I don't think that the board has to vote to continue the hearing. To close the hearing.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 251</summary>

> Yep. So I think what I'd like to see is if there is a motion from the board to request that the applicant withdraw the current application to approach the select board, the Arlington Police Department, and the Department of Health and Human Services to confirm whether a new community agreement would be required. And at the time when this project is ready to move forward in whatever shape it winds up taking, that they reapply to the redevelopment board when their materials are fully compiled. I'm okay with that. That sounds good. Okay, would you like to make that motion? So motioned. Is there a second?  Second. We'll take a vote starting with Ken. Yes. Gene. Yes. Steve. Yes. I'm a yes as well. So we will continue this hearing by asking them to, they would have to formally withdraw, and at our next meeting, we will accept the withdrawal of the application. And if they don't withdraw, then? Then we will take a motion to disapprove. Okay, that makes sense. Yes. Thank you. Great, thank you, Claire. Let's see. And I think we need to give them a timeframe in terms of getting on the select board schedule. They may be able to get an administrative ruling on this, but in case they need to go in front of the select board again, I think we would give them until that October 2nd meeting to withdraw, to formally withdraw. Okay. So that continues agenda item number four, and
</details></details>
<details><summary>Open Forum</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 34</summary>

> we will now move to agenda number five, open forum. Please. So if you could please introduce yourself. First, last name, and address, and you'll have up to three minutes to address the board.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Jim Doherty - 285</summary>

> Thank you. Jim Daugherty, 68 Brentwood Road, Arlington. I feel like it's in a birthday in many respects. It's three years ago, about 10 days ago, when the board granted permission to approve the hotel, Lexington Hotel. As you know, the hearing started prior to COVID, and based on the date I just gave you, I'm sure everybody realizes it was during COVID. Hospitality industry was greatly impacted, probably arguably more than anyone else. Needless to say, I'm painting a picture for you basically that I've been attempting to reach out to the planning department. I last spoke with Kelly on the matter back in April or so, and I've had some email correspondence and other voicemails, et cetera, and haven't had much dialogue come back, so I was hoping that we could put it on the agenda if it's the desire of the board to discuss that matter at a date. The appeal commenced on September 15th of 2000, and the decision was sometime in early December, so the preference, obviously, when I first spoke to Kelly about this was to do it prior to September. Not sure that's in the cards right now, quite frankly, because I don't know when your next meeting is, if it would be prior to that, but again, I didn't come. I understand what public forum is. I didn't come here. You don't have to respond, and not looking to have it, so I hope it didn't go to my three minutes, but that's really all I wanted to get across, and if you do have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. If not, if you could put us on the agenda, that would be great.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 65</summary>

> Thank you very much, and just so that you know, I have been on vacation the last two weeks, and Claire and I did speak about this earlier. Today, I just returned today, and the intent is to put you on probably October 2nd, that agenda, once we get through the September hearings, for a hearing about your request for a continuation of the approval.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Jim Doherty - 13</summary>

> Yes. Great, I appreciate it. I appreciate your consultation. Thank you so much.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 46</summary>

> Hope you had a great vacation. Thank you. I appreciate it. Hello, you guys. We have a big brother. Right, right. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. So, seeing no one else, we will go ahead and close open forum for this evening, and
</details></details>
<details><summary>New Business</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 28</summary>

> move to agenda item number six, which is new business, and I will turn it over to Claire to see if you have anything for us this evening.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Richter - 363</summary>

> Thank you. The only new business I'd like to bring up this evening are updated guidelines that we received, I think it was about 10 days ago now, from the state regarding MBTA communities with some new regulations as they relate to commercial development. And the chair of the MBTA Working Group and I are developing a memo in response to these updated guidelines. We think that the work that we have done with the zoning so far is solid. We think that the bonuses and incentives that we have put in place for commercial development are honestly go further than updated MBTA communities guidelines, which are only recommending 30% commercial on the first floor. I believe we are recommending up to 80% on the first floor commercial development. And the fact that we have stayed out of all commercial zones in town, really, I mean, it doesn't necessarily impact us that we would need a regulation that would allow for commercial to remain in a development, in a commercial zone. We simply did not do the project that way. So while this is an interesting update and guidelines that have come in, I, you know, pretty late in the game for the communities with the heavy rail or with the rapid transit in them, such as Newton and Brookline, who I believe were advocating for this change. This is really not something that has impacted the work that we've done in Arlington. We are, it is contextually different. And we think the work that the working group has done, that the ARB has done, and that the public has done at this point in Arlington will serve to incentivize commercial development as it is. So although I don't have a memo for the board tonight, Sanjay, the working group chair and I are putting a memo together for the working group tomorrow, which I will distribute. And I wanted to this evening at least, you know, acknowledge that those guidelines have been updated two days after we took our final vote as a working group. But I think I would be remiss to let it go sort of undiscussed and unacknowledged, so.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 16</summary>

> Great, thank you. Any questions for Claire about that update, starting with Kim?  No. Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 297</summary>

> Yes, thanks. I think the problem for me and maybe for Rachel is, I mean, I was gone out of the country for a week and saw the guidelines, I think, just before I left the revised guidelines on commercial. And my initial thought, which I hadn't sort of thought about since I was in London or since I got back, was that they weren't going to be very helpful for us and that we could probably do it better than they were doing. But again, I haven't seen the latest map. I haven't seen all of the detail that probably Kim and Steve have seen and you have seen, Claire. So I don't really have any context in which to judge what you said. My thinking up to this point has been with the incentives for commercial on the ground floor that we have the MBTA community zone where we're doing the site plan review. But if someone hopefully wants the two extra floors and getting rid of the first floor setback, they go into special permit review, which I believe that we can do because the mixed use isn't required by MBTA community guidance. And it sort of seems to me, it would be a better way to do it than to create a site plan review, which does not give us as much authority and leeway as putting it into special permit review. So that was my thought about how to do it. And I haven't had the chance to say that to anyone until now. And I think it's worth having said some conversation about bifurcating that way. And if we do that, then I think that's a lot better than what my initial read of the new guidelines led me to believe.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 70</summary>

> So Gene, what I'm hearing is that if someone were to opt into the bonuses, then it would become a special permit. Yep, they'd opt back into the special permit process. Yep. Because they're going to get a review from us in either case, so we might as well have our better review with the criteria that are in the ZBL right now. Great, thank you, Gene, for that feedback.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Relevik - 64</summary>

> Steve, did you have any feedback for Claire? Yeah. With regards to the new guidance, I don't think it's necessary for us to adopt it. I think the decision to go with bonuses to encourage ground floor commercial will work just fine. Because we're not using any parcels in the business or industrial districts, I don't see a strong need to mandate its inclusion.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 253</summary>

> Great. Sorry about that. Mr. Benson's suggestion is intriguing, and I will have to give it some thought tomorrow night, before our meeting tomorrow night. Well, either that, or we'll all have to discuss it if it doesn't come back from the working group that way. Yeah, I do think that makes sense. Because that is a, I think that, it's an interesting idea. I think it works. I'm going to, I like it, but I want to sleep on it a little bit. Right, understood. I'm just going to say what the working group will probably think, because I've been working with them for a while, and they're thinking that they're using this as of right, and the bonuses would be as of right. And you're saying now that if you want to take any bonuses, you have to go back into the special permit, which then has a chance of not getting approval. So the encouragement to take these bonuses are not as high, because, yes, we're making MBTA communities as of right to do housing in these areas, but if they want to take advantage of any of the bonuses, then. Well, let me just say, I could be persuaded otherwise, but at the moment, you probably would not have my vote if it was as of right without a significant special permit review by us. That's just my feeling at the moment. But I'll have to sleep on it, the same way Steve will have to sleep on it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 115</summary>

> Yeah, no, I'm just, I'm not saying one way or the other, either. I think, again, I don't want to get into, you know, a discussion of this particular, since this wasn't on the agenda, but I do think that it is important for us to see, Gene, what is being proposed for a site plan review to understand, because we haven't seen that, right, in terms of what the standards are, what the teeth are within that, so that. Agreed, but it can't be as significant and as far-reaching as the special permit criteria. Understood, but I think that that is part of the review, is to understand what is being proposed. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 40</summary>

> To that end, the other item of, did you have another item of new business? No. So the other item. Should we have the chair? Yes. Before we move on, may I ask a clarifying question of Mr. Benson? Yes.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 67</summary>

> So, Mr. Benson, we had, the working group had been discussing three different bonuses, one for the inclusion of ground floor commercial, one for the inclusion of additional affordable units, and one for a project that was certifiable as sites gold. Would you, were you thinking in terms of having a special permit requirement for all three of those, or only the ground floor commercial mixed-use bonus?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 184</summary>

> Well, I think that's a big question about whether we as a board like all those three incentives and wanted to, would want to put them all into the same package. Now, you know, I haven't seen this, but I heard through the grapevine, and maybe the grapevine was wrong or inaccurate, that we're not actually requiring site certification or even certifiable, but some lesser site standard than real sites, if that were indeed the case, I would be really, really concerned that we took a product that took years of the Green Building Council to come up with and started stripping things out of it and still give people credit for it. So if that's, if it's like sites less, I'm not so happy with it. But again, this is just what I heard through the grapevine that had me concerned. What the answer, Steve, is, yeah, I would probably be okay with site plan review if it was for affordable housing. I'd have to understand what the incentives are to say for sure. Yeah, we really need to see the full package.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 288</summary>

> Absolutely, yeah. So that brings me to our next item. So our agenda on September 11th is to review the full MBTA communities package, is that? That's correct. Correct, Claire?  That's correct. So one of the challenges we are going to have in terms of timing is that is also the day that the warrant opens and closes. So we have several articles outside of MBTA communities that the board has already reviewed and voted on and put onto the spring town meeting, which we'll then just push right into fall. Those can easily be, can be moved onto the warrant. And I'll just, for the record, review what those are. Those are to modify requirements for landscaped and usable open space in the business districts, reduction of rear yard setbacks in business districts, clarify and adjust step back requirements in business districts, eliminate or reduce the reduced height buffer area, modify the corner lot requirements and adjust height and story minimums in the business districts and add a minimum height requirement. Those are the warrant articles that we had previously voted on for spring town meeting and pushed to the fall. Madam Chair, wasn't there also one about step backs?  Yes. Clarify and adjust step back. If I didn't read that, I apologize. Okay. I might have missed it. Sorry. That's okay. I read them quickly. So, yes. Step backs are included in that. So, in addition to that, we will need language around the MBTA community's zoning proposal, which will be broad because it will encompass multiple sections of the zoning code and in fact create an overlay. Yes. Within that, Claire, if I understand correctly, the site plan review process will be included?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Richter - 66</summary>

> That's correct. Currently, as written, the board will use the EDR process, the process that you currently enjoy as a non-discretionary review process, a site plan review. So there was a package that was sent to EOHLC, which is the successor, I think, to EOHED for pre-adoption review. That went in at the beginning of last week. I'm happy to share that package with the board.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 431</summary>

> Obviously, we can't deliberate on it, but I think certainly as an FBI, I'm happy to send that along. I think that would be helpful to see well ahead of that meeting. But that meeting, sure. That would be great. So without having the opportunity, so the warrant on September 11th opens and closes before our meeting that evening. So what we would need to do is to ensure that we are comfortable, and I'm happy to work together with Claire, and if we decide it's Jean, you know, two of us can work together to ensure that the language is written such that we do not need to review and vote as a board on the actual warrant language for, again, not the entire, not all of the language, basically just the heading for the warrants. That is, that is what needs to be included, and obviously the full language of the article is what we will review starting on September 11th with the hearing process that will run through September on all of these, actually. The others that we had identified were rezoning the St. Camilla's parcel, which I don't believe we are in a position, Claire, correct me if I'm wrong, to move forward with at this point. That is correct. We will take that off from fall, and if we decide to pursue that for spring, that's when we will look at that one. The other one is a pretty simple one, which, again, we've been speaking about for multiple meetings now, which is to remove single and duplex slash two family by right in the business districts. It's a simple article that needs to be written, and adding street tree requirements for every 25 feet of street frontage for all developments. Again, this does not mean that we are, if we submit these, that we are in any way beholden to move these forward post-hearing, but we need to get these onto the docket, unfortunately, before our meeting that evening. So what I would like to propose is that I work together with Claire and perhaps Gene, so Ken and Steve, we could certainly submit and have you, we could have Claire or myself collate feedback and make sure that the language is submitted during the open warrant article period, and again, this would not affect our hearing process. We would still have full hearings and still need to fully develop the actual warrant article language for the full article. So I wanted to get people's thoughts on that as a procedural item of new business.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ken Lau - 9</summary>

> Ken. I'm okay with you and Claire doing this.
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 24</summary>

> Okay. I just don't have the bandwidth right now. Totally understand. And I appreciate you guys taking the time to do that. Okay. Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 299</summary>

> Yeah, I'd just like to review them before they are submitted. I welcome that, yes. And the ones that you mentioned, other than MBTA communities, I think are doable and should not be very complicated. Correct. I am very concerned about MBTA communities, though. And the wording for that, yes. The wording for that, because we have, over the six plus years I have been on this board, boxed ourselves in more than once by not putting the right wording into the warrant article, where we then couldn't do what we wanted to do or had to try to jerry-rig what we wanted to do. And since neither Claire nor I have seen or participated in what the proposal will be from the MBTA communities working group, we don't know whether we'll like it. What I've heard through the grapevine and what I looked at when I saw the map on the website this morning is that at least some of the recommendations that Claire and I made when we did... Sorry, just for record, you mean Rachel. I mean Rachel. I'm sorry. Thank you. That Rachel and I made. I'm not sure if it's COVID or jet lag that's having me do that. I understand, Gene. I'm just trying to help. Thank you. Seems not to have made it into these proposals. So I don't know where we're going to be on those things. So it would be great if we could write it both broad enough so that we can make changes to the proposal from the working group if we determine that it's appropriate to do so. And that, you know, it does include things that would allow us to do things that the working group maybe hasn't talked about. So that's my concern about it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 5</summary>

> Agreed. Thank you, Gene. Steve?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Relevik - 21</summary>

> I am fine. I'm completely comfortable with delegating the warrant drafting to the chair, to Mr. Benson, and to Ms. Ritter.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 143</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Steve. I appreciate that. And we will, Claire and I will touch base with Steve again. Three quarters of this is complete. It is really those two minor clarifications and then the more complex wording of the MBTA community's zoning overlay district, which, again, we can have an offline discussion about and move that forward. And I should mention, I emailed both of you the other day about a minor change to a lettering in one of the zoning bylaw sections that we should have done last year when we changed something else, but we didn't. So the reference is to the wrong section now. And I think we can put that in this time, too. Thank you, Gene. I'm still waiting through my email from being out, so I will look for that today. It's a very simple one.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 85</summary>

> Great. Thank you. I will also just mention that there were two, one fairly administrative, one I'm not sure if it's quite as administrative, requests from the Zoning Board of Appeals. And I asked them if they would be willing to hold those for Springtown meeting, and they seemed amenable to that. So we will have a few articles from the Zoning Board of Appeals to discuss for Springtown meeting, just as an FYI. Any other items of new business, starting with Claire, Ken, Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Gene Benson - 90</summary>

> Yeah. I just want to thank everybody who's been working on MBTA communities because it's been a long, I can see, drawn-out process in which you get brickbacks thrown at you fairly regularly. And, you know, I'm getting, and I'm sure the rest of you are getting, lots of emails from people, some of which are heartfelt, and some of which are heartfelt but are based on a lot of misinformation. So I just want to thank everybody here and everybody else on the committee who's been working so hard.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 419</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Gene. I'd also like to extend that to all of the members of the public who have attended the meetings and provided feedback, and to all of those who are continuing to provide written feedback as well. It's very helpful. Steve, any other items of new business? No new business from me, Madam Chair. Great. Thank you. Madam Chair, actually, did you want to mention the postcard which went out? Yes. Thank you. And, in fact, it was, it's funny, I was just thinking of it. So we... Now telepathic. That's... Yeah. It's happening. It is. The, excuse me, the community outreach section of the MBTA communities working group has worked very hard to put together a postcard with QR code that will send folks to the MBTA communities webpage, which, of course, has all of our information and our iterative work on it. This postcard went out in a bulk mailing this afternoon. It encourages folks to provide comment at the September 11th hearing, and then to continue to provide comment and advocate for MBTA communities as they can through the process before town meeting. So this is a full town mailing. It will go out to, like I said, it went out today. I had a conversation with Rachel about it this morning as I also booked town hall for your September 11th meeting because we will be expecting quite a few people to be there for that. So postcard mailing today out to the full town, obviously, clearly, legal notice will go, legal notice is going out to about 4,500 homes also this week as is required. So we do think that we have our bases covered in terms of town notification, and, you know, we will move on from here. Excuse me. What happens if we, when it gets to the redevelopment board, it adjusts the map? Will we then send out cards or letters to property owners who weren't done before? So this is, we required to, we did, we notified everybody who is under the potential overlay as well as those who extend 300 feet from the edge of the overlay. I am not anticipating changes to the map that are so significant that we would need to notify a new group of property owners. If we do, then we'll have to do that. Okay, thanks. Sure. Thank you, Jean. Any other questions for Claire regarding the mailing? Kim? No. Steve? No. Great. Thank you. Any other new business? No.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Adjournment</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zemberry - 51</summary>

> All right. Great. Seeing none, I will see if there is a motion to adjourn. So motion. Second. We'll take a vote starting with Kim. Yes. Jean? Yes. Steve? Yes. And I'm a yes as well. We are adjourned. Thank you, everybody. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody.  Bye-bye.
</details></details>