### Arlington Redevelopment Board - October 16, 2023  [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yv7u62Pl6Qs) [agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1938&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda)

<details><summary>Opening</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 47</summary>

> On Monday, October 16th, my name is Ken Lau, Rachel is not in today so I'll be acting chair. Can I introduce the rest of the board members?  Steve Revellat. Good evening. Eugene Benson. And Claire Richter here, she's from the planning board. And Marissa Lau.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Article 13 - Zoning Bylaw Amendment / MBTA Communities Act Neighborhood District</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 84</summary>

> So let's start with agenda number one, public hearing, citizens' warrant for a fall town meeting. And this is article 13, zoning bylaw amendment, MBTA communities act, and we're going to take ten minutes for opponents to make a statement, and then we'll discuss amongst ourselves, and then we'll open it up for whoever's here. Can you please come up to the mic? Do you have anything to show? I do not, no, and this is not going to take anywhere near ten minutes.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Wynelle Evans - 296</summary>

> Winnell Evans, Orchard Place, I submitted this article and I have to apologize because it was my own ignorance that led me to submit an article when in fact I should have been submitting an amendment. So right there I started off on the wrong foot. But in the process of this, especially in gathering the signatures in order to get this article on the warrant, I think it was a really worthwhile exercise because I gathered about two and a half times the required number, talked to an awful lot of people, got to hear their concerns. And I am so grateful to the board for listening to those concerns. I know you guys have had a lot of letters as well, and I think that the decision to reconsider the height in the neighborhood multifamily district has gone a long way to making people feel heard and to feel that this is going to be a change in town that will be more acceptable, easier for them to kind of get their minds around. So I'm very, very happy about that. I do intend to submit an amendment to further pursue the boundary of the neighborhood multifamily districts. And if all goes well, I should be submitting that tomorrow. It has been an arduous evolutionary process. But I will not be pursuing this article unless there were so many amendments and somebody came back and tried to reverse the decision on the heights, but I hope that that will not happen. So I do not plan to pursue this. So are you going to withdraw this? According to town council, one cannot withdraw an article. So it will simply, to my understanding, it will simply be up to the board to vote no action.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 37</summary>

> Okay. Which I'm assuming is what will happen. I'm going to see what the rest of the board members feel like doing. Are you finished?  Yes. That's all I've got. Gene, do you have any questions?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 234</summary>

> Yes. I do have a couple questions. Thanks, Ronell, for coming in and doing this. And I agree that our course of action is to vote no action on this because there's no main motion to go along with it, so there's really no opportunity unless we want to sit here and write something ourselves, which I don't think we want to do. I guess my main, well, I have a couple of questions. In your amendment, will you be including a revised parcel list and a revised map? I will be. And this is what has been so incredibly stressful and time-consuming. So yes, I definitely will be. I am trying to parallel what the redevelopment board has presented as closely as I possibly can in terms of the presentation and what I'm providing. And I guess the other question is, you probably know that for the districts to meet the requirements, they must be contiguous and at least five acres. Have you figured out how to reduce the boundaries and keep them at contiguous and five acres? I believe that I have. That has been yet another element that's been incredibly stressful and time-consuming. But I believe that I have solved that. Yes. I think for town meeting, it would be helpful for you to indicate the acreage on the ones that you're doing. Yes. I plan to. Yes. Yes. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 51</summary>

> Steve? I have one question. Will you be able to provide capacity calculations? I am doing my best on that as well. Yes. Yes. That is all, Mr. Chair. I have one question. You're going to show a map of the boundaries. Is that going to mimic what's already been shown?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 230</summary>

> Yes. I am actually using the version 3A map as the underlying map. So that all parcels are indicated. The proposed Mass Ave. Broadway Multifamily District is indicated, the proposed neighborhood Multifamily Districts are indicated. And then mine is simply showing what I am changing. So yes. I'm using your sort of base map. So the footprint's still the same. It's just the heights and some of the setbacks are a little different. No. It's actually the reach of the boundary. So I am reducing the boundary of this Multifamily Neighborhood Multifamily District. Not in East Arlington because it can't be reduced any further and retain required contiguity to my understanding. Okay. I just want to because I want to make clear that if you add any areas, I don't I'm not sure we can do that because you haven't given the owners proper notice. I have added five parcels. And according to Claire, they are within, apparently you sent out notices to parcels within 300 feet of the affected parcel. So this is well within that boundary. So they should have been noticed. Okay. Yeah. That's a requirement of any map change is that we notice everybody within the who's impacted exactly by the map change and then any abutters within 300 feet of the closest parcel. So whatever she wants to do, all the butters have been notified.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 74</summary>

> Correct. Okay. So all right. That's all I have to say. Okay. Thank you. I guess any questions from the public? Well, question or comment. I mean, it's the same thing. Yeah. Do you mind? I have no comment. So to you, but I can ask. I mean, I just. Could you come up and state your name? Yeah, sure. We can do that. And sorry, what else? Oh. I can hear it too.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Grant Cook - 360</summary>

> So yeah. Grant Cook. Wollaston. So I am Precinct 16. So I know this isn't going to be an amendment we debate here, but I do, if it was, I would encourage you to vote no action on it. I mean, the changes you made, I was in a precinct meeting last night and someone said, I want a bit more compromise in arguing for us going down to the do nothing basic bare minimum. That's to me, feels like, you know, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I was in a precinct meeting last night and someone said, I want a bit more compromise in arguing for us going down to the do nothing basic bare minimum. That's to me, feels like, compromise like where someone doesn't order dessert and ask for half of yours, and then asks for a few more bites later. We keep cutting this down. So last week, you guys did some big changes. And the expressed explanation of your changes was that you're going to make these neighborhood units consistent with the neighborhood. Shorter, setbacks consistent. If they're consistent with the neighborhood, then let's not treat them like outcasts in the neighborhood. 250 to me, if this was to go forward, is the wrong direction. I think it should go to 450. I mean, if they are neighborhood consistent, they should be welcome to the neighborhood. My block on Park Ave, which is someplace I think you should, because we all agree, because I hope we all agree we'll do more of this. That's what I've heard from a lot of people after we take the tenor of the results. My block, my house, Wollaston off Park, is 350 feet. To me, that would cover my house and my street. I think that's an appropriate dimension. So I hope you stick in that range and we stick with the plan we have that is, I think, a good start. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Moore - 202</summary>

> Thank you. Please come up and state your name. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm Steve Moore, Piedmont Street. I would like to actually argue the opposite of the comment you just heard, which is 250, I think, is a good compromise between those who want zero change and those who support the general approach that the ARB and the town has taken to date prior to the actual votes that will happen in the special ten meeting. I don't believe 250 feet into the neighborhood is unwelcoming. I can't say 450 into the neighborhood is welcoming or unwelcoming. It's just a distance. And I don't feel that this particular scaling back is such a massive impact. I would like to ask a question, and I apologize I was late to the meeting. This may have been stated during the presentation, so I apologize if this already has been answered. But this change, has the analysis been done at all by Ms. Winnell about how much this would decrease the current 30, what is it, 3,200 is the current analysis of the capacity that's generated by the changes you made about a week or two ago? Could somebody, could you answer that?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 112</summary>

> Yeah, let me just check that number. Can I say something? Sure. This is sort of in some way completely out of scope of what we're doing. All we're doing is going to say no action on Ms. Evans' warrant article because she doesn't want to go ahead with the warrant article. She hasn't presented a main motion, so we're not here to either do what you're saying, Mr. Moore, or what Mr. Cook was saying. I had my speech prep. And I did not. We're not here to do that. We're not here to give a pro or con about what Ms. Evans is going to propose as an amendment tonight.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Steve Moore - 10</summary>

> Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Batson. I apologize.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 81</summary>

> Sure, no problem. You know, served me right for being late. Does anybody else want to make a comment? I'm going to close comment and discuss amongst ourselves. Is there a motion, or do you want to discuss further? I have nothing to, no further questions, Mr. Chair. I would make a motion that we recommend no action on this article. I'll second. Okay. Steve? Yes. Jean?  Yes. And also a yes. So there's no action on this. Thank you.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Docket #3602, 1207-1211 Massachusetts Avenue</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 87</summary>

> Now moving on to document number two. Is Jim here? Hey, Jim. We're running a little early today. Thank you for being here. Yes, please. You can come sit down here. And I do want to say that there's only three of us here today. And we cannot vote on this today. Since there's only three of us here. So what I would suggest is can we reschedule you to come back again? Or do you feel like you want to say something since you're here already?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Jim Doherty and Kin Lau - 140</summary>

> No, I think that the introduction that you gave me a month or so ago when we were over in the Selectmen's hearing room, I kind of gave an overview. And then the comments that I submitted I think really outline it. That's it. All right. So can we make a time?  Can we schedule this? Sure. Unfortunately, we've got a town meeting coming up. And that's going to occupy most of our time. Are we meeting on the 20th of November? Yes. That's cutting it pretty close to the three-year deadline. Is there an earlier November meeting? There's November 6th. But we haven't noticed it. Although I guess we did notice this. We can open and continue to the 6th. Let's do that. The 6th? Thank you for that observation. Does the 6th work for you?  Excellent.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 106</summary>

> Can I get a motion for the 6th? So I move that the hearing be continued to November 6th at 7.30 p.m. at 27 Maple Street or at some other location at which we may meet. I have a second on this? I would ask a friendly amendment not to give the time. Because it may not be the 7.30. All right. To 7.30 or such time as we shall meet at 27 Maple Street or such places we shall meet. Thank you. I will second that. Steve? Yes. Dean? Yes. I'm a yes. We'll continue this. Sorry for today. No worries. Thank you. You're welcome.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Open Forum</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 22</summary>

> All right. Does anybody here want to speak upon open forum? You have three minutes. Can you state your name and address?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Ann Leroyer and Kin Lau - 521</summary>

> Yes. Hi. I'm Ann. 12 Pierce Street. I was here for the hotel discussion. And he referenced a previous meeting that had some discussion. I'm not aware of that. And I just wanted to know what that was and if there's any report on it. Mr. Doherty attended the ARB meeting the night of August 28th. And an open forum made the request that the ARB reopen his hearing related to the hotel. It's in the minutes. It was a verbal request. That's right. So that was all that was discussed? There was nothing else shown. He just asked for an extension. Yes. Nothing new has been submitted at this time. That's what I'm trying to understand. So he was basically just asking for an extension. That's correct. Of the whole project. Of the project. Yes. Okay. Well, I have a question about some of the conditions in the original permit. Or the decision. One was about trees being cut down. And it said in the conditions that there was one tree. But in fact, they've already cut down three trees. Behind the DAV building. I think they were all three maples. Which are not our favorite trees. But still, they were large trees. Part of them had fallen down on top of the roof. And so I understand that there had to be some sort of extension. But I'm not sure. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I think that there had to be some correction made. Probably. But that I just wanted to clarify. That there were actually three trees. Rather than just one that was cited in the conditions. And I also have a question about junk cars. Because on the site. If anybody goes by there. You'll see. At least five. Trucks and cars that have been parked there for years. And I know. There's a bylaw. A town bylaw. Relating to that. Including fees. And I just wonder whether that's ever been raised. As a concern. I mean it's just part of the. Abuse of that property. That's been going on for years. And I know that. You know. Maybe eventually it will be improved. With a hotel. Or some other project that he proposes. But for now. It still is a. You know. Terrible looking site. And if this is going to be continued for another year. Or you know. I don't know how long. I just would hope that somebody could look into. Whatever. Town bylaws. Are. Related to the junk cars that have been there. Like I say. For decades. Well probably decades. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know how many years that he's owned that property. Anyway, it's just, it's just. A mess and. It's too bad that this has been prolonged for so long. Thank you. Can I say something? Sure. Yeah. We don't have any authority over the junk cars. You know, you might. Find out who it is in town who enforces the bylaw. Okay. My suggestion is calling. Building department.
</details></details>
<details><summary>New Business</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 21</summary>

> Okay. Anybody else? Seeing nobody else. I'm closing. Article three. Open forum. And article four. New business. Do you have anything?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 52</summary>

> Today. I have no. I have nothing to say today. Other than to remind folks that town meeting starts tomorrow night. We will be discussing. Several. Warren articles related to business zones and zoning. It's not anticipated that. MBTA communities or article 12 will be taken up before next Monday. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 106</summary>

> Steve. Yes. I have two questions. One is. I was wondering what the current state of. Affairs is with a Calix. The recreational dispensary. So. I've been in contact with them. They will be on the. Agenda for the sixth. Okay. And. The other, my other question, what Mr. Chair was. I know there was a question of. The 50% threshold. Possibly applying to some. Questions. Well taken. I have been. Pursuing the. Town council for an answer to that question for. A few days now. I can continue to. Look for an answer, obviously. Before tomorrow evening. You know, we've got a new town council.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 121</summary>

> It's a transition right now. So it's going to be a little. Gene, do you have any? No. I have none, so I'm going to close new business. And is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. Steve? Yes. Gene?  Yes. And I'm a yes also. Thank you very much for coming and very short meeting, but thank you. Thank you all. I'll see you guys tomorrow town meeting right? Yep, absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Steve. Thank you guys. Thank you Gayle. My name is Jay I'll see you guys tomorrow town meeting, right? Yep, absolutely. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. I'll see you guys tomorrow town meeting right?  Yep, absolutely. Thank you.
</details></details>