### Arlington Redevelopment Board - November 6, 2023  [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVAklywVr7c) [agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1951&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda)

<details><summary>Opening</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 93</summary>

> Good evening, it is November 6th, welcome to the Town of Arlington Redevelopment Board meeting this evening, my name is Rachel Zember, I am the chair of the board, if I could have the other members of the board present in the room, please introduce yourselves. Steve Everlock, good evening. Good evening, Eugene Benson. And we have Ken Lau joining us remotely, hi Ken. Yes, thank you. And we have the director of the Department of Planning and Community Development, Claire Ricker, joining us this evening as well. Thank you. Thank you, Claire.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Meeting Minutes</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 504</summary>

> All right, let's just go ahead and jump into our first agenda item, which is to review the meeting minutes from the last four meetings. We will start with the meeting minutes from October 2nd, and I will run through and see if there are any additions or corrections to the meeting minutes as posted, starting with Ken. I have none. Great, starting with Gene. I do not have any. Steve? No changes, Madam Chair. And I do not either. Is there a motion to approve the meeting minutes from October 2nd, 2023 as submitted? So moved. Is there a second? Second. I'll take a roll call vote, starting with Ken. Yes. Steve? Yes. Gene? Yes. The meeting minutes have been approved. We'll move on now to the meeting minutes from October 10th, 2023. Are there any additions or corrections, starting with Ken? I have none. Gene? I have none. Steve? No changes. And I have no changes either. Is there a motion to approve the meeting minutes from October 10th, 2023 as submitted? So moved. Is there a second? Second. We'll take a vote, starting with Ken. Yes. Gene? Yes. Steve? Yes. And I have none. And I may ask as well. Those meeting minutes have been approved. We'll move to the meeting minutes from October 16th, 2023. Any additions or corrections, starting with Ken? No. I have none. Gene? Yes. Two very minor corrections. Okay. On the second page, about halfway down, it says the Chair, it should be the Vice-Chair. And then about two-thirds of the way down, it says the Chair, it should be the Vice-Chair. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for those two changes. Steve, any other additions or corrections?  Nothing here. Great. We'll take, see if there's a motion to approve the October 16th, 2023 meeting minutes as amended. So moved. Is there a second? Second. We'll take a vote, starting with Ken. Yes. Gene?  Yes. Steve? Yes. And I may ask as well. And we will now move to the October 23rd, 2023 meeting minutes. I have one small change. While I'm pulling those up, I will see Ken, if you have any additions or corrections. No. Gene? None. Steve? None. So the only change I have in the second paragraph before the bullet points on the first page, where it says here, the Chair noted that the Board would need to decide whether or not they support the amendments, but they will not address each amendment unless specifically asked to do so. If we could change that to, can not address each amendment unless specifically addressed to do so. That's the only change that I have. And I will see if there is a motion to approve these minutes as amended. So moved. Is there a second? Second. We'll take a vote. Starting with Ken. Yes. Gene?  Yes. Steve? Yes. And I may ask as well. Those meeting minutes have been approved. And that takes us through agenda item number one.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Continued Public Hearing: Docket #3752, Calyx Peak, 251 Summer Street</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 34</summary>

> Great. We'll now move to agenda item number two, which is the continued public hearing for docket number 3752, Calix Peak at 251 Summer Street. And I will hand it over to Claire Ricker.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 105</summary>

> Thank you very much. I have spoken with the representative from Calix Peak several times over the past month or so about updated plans, site plans especially related to this project. And after careful consideration, they have asked that the Board close the hearing that has been continued since June for the, which refers to project plans that were submitted in, I believe it was May 23rd meeting. They will, they may come back with updated plans for a new special permit application. But at this time they are unable to come to terms with the property owner about the site and wish to withdraw.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 33</summary>

> Great. Thank you for the update, Claire. And as this is an administrative action, I will ask each member of the Board for their perspective to weigh in and we'll start with Ken.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 9</summary>

> Are they planning to resubmit a different site plan?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 106</summary>

> I have heard. This is the last permit, so I just want to believe in the proof of the last permit or if it's off, I will recall to start again. It's my understanding that this is the third and final permit that is available. The Select Board did approve the host community agreement. Really the issue is with the, with Calix Peak and the site. If there is another appropriate site that they're considering, they haven't shared that at this time. I believe they were still trying to work out issues with the property owner, but did not want to continue this hearing any further.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson and Rachel Zsembery - 130</summary>

> All right, thank you. Gene, any questions or comments? I'm not clear whether they're withdrawing their application or they're asking us to close the hearing or they're asking us to rule no on the special permit application. They're asking us to close the hearing without a finding. What does that mean to close the hearing without a finding?  That means that they're withdrawing their application. So we would make a motion in that case to accept the withdrawal of the application and close the hearing for docket number 3752. And they would have to file a new special permit? They would have to start all over again and start a new special permit. Thank you. That answers my question. I have no objections to entertaining a motion to withdraw.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 207</summary>

> Great. Nor do I think that this has, there have been significant issues we still, they have yet to present in front of us and to belabor it at this point, I think we need to give them the time to see if this can work with their site and their landlord and then have them come back when they have a real project. Yes. Okay. Great. So is there a motion from the board to accept the withdrawal of the application for docket number 3752 and close the docket without finding? So moved. And can I amend in that they would need to file a new special permit application? Correct. With the stipulation that the applicant, should they wish to pursue this project in the future, return to the redevelopment board with a new, a fully new application. Would you accept that amendment? I will accept that. Okay. I will second then. Great. We'll take a roll call vote starting with Ken. Yes. Gene. Yes. Steve. Yes. And I'm a yes as well. So docket number 3752 has been closed without finding and should the applicant wish to pursue a new special permit, they would need to begin that process again. That's correct. Okay. Thank you.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Reopened Public Hearing: Docket #3602, 1207-1211 Massachusetts Avenue</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 221</summary>

> We will now move on to item number three, which is the reopened public hearing for docket number 3602, 1207 to 1211 Massachusetts Avenue, and I will turn it over to Director Ricker. So this is a request for a continuance of the permit, which is a three-year permit. Mr. Benson advised that given that the final appeal was exhausted in early December of 2020, we have until early December of 2023 to make a decision about whether to extend the existing EDR special permit for this project. The applicant has not indicated, you know, to my knowledge for which amount of time or for how long this permit would need to be extended, only that he wishes that it be extended to some point so that it does not expire in early December. We have no updated plans. It is still the decision still stands. And like I said, we have nothing updated. It is still the same project. I think they're just asking for a continuance of the permit. Great. Thank you. So at this time, I would like to invite the applicant, Jim Doherty, if you'd like to present your request and any other information that you think would be pertinent to the Board. If you could sit, please, so the microphone can pick you up. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 292</summary>

> Thank you for having me. Thank you for agreeing to discuss this matter. As I submitted to the Board... Sorry. If you could just introduce yourself for the record. Oh, sure. My name is James Doherty. I'm the owner of 1207 Mass Ave. and 1211 Mass Ave. And collectively, the two parcels involved in this particular development. As many of you know, last time I was here, I mentioned that the hospitality industry, needless to say, was probably the hottest hit. I don't think many people would doubt that through the COVID experience that we had. Recently, going back to the last quarter, I mean the second quarter of this year, the hospitality industry and the jobs reports indicated it's kind of getting back. I think a lot of people have experienced that. I think even somewhat probably into 2002 as well. So I think the project has always been a very viable project. I think it would be a tremendous asset to the community, both from a development standpoint, from a revenue standpoint. And I'm here respectfully asking that it be extended. I did request a two-year extension as part of COVID-19 and then going back to the financial crisis downturn in the beginning 2008 through 10 period. There was similar legislation that was enacted during both of that event back then and then more recently COVID. But I'm here to discuss it with the board and hopefully we all share the goal of it was a vibrant project back then and I think it still is. We just need to get through COVID and I think we're through there. I think you're starting to see people invest versus before. I think they were trying to hold on to their assets.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 81</summary>

> I'll turn it over to other members of the board in just a minute, but I do have a couple of questions for you. And I do want to say that the hospitality business is one of the businesses that I work in and it's been very vibrant for the past two years. So it's disappointing to me to see that there has not been progress on this site. How far away are you from submitting drawings to the building department?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 23</summary>

> I have nothing mocked up right now for that. That wouldn't happen until something concrete is nailed down for the reuse of it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 25</summary>

> Until something is concrete? What is not concrete?  You have an approved site plan, what is not concrete that needs to be nailed down?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 19</summary>

> We need to acquire an operator to operate the hotel and we would need to work through that financially.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 10</summary>

> You have no progress on an operator at this time?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 15</summary>

> I'm not prepared to tell you tonight that we're here to introduce an operator, no.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 44</summary>

> That answers my questions. The other interesting thing about the project a few years ago was the restaurant, which was going to be a sit-down nice restaurant. I wonder if you have anybody, company lined up for that sort of restaurant at this point?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 37</summary>

> The restaurant is geared off the hotel use itself. So we would not entertain renting out or identifying and committing to someone for a restaurant until the hotel operator is selected. It just doesn't work that way.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 30</summary>

> Can you tell us the steps you went through between when you got the special permit and now to attempt to make this project happen during the past three years?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 302</summary>

> Sure. Well, the past three years, just to dial it back for everyone, this project was initially discussed when the RFP went out in terms of the 2016 timeframe. The property was not even controlled and we didn't get in front of the ARB until I believe it was the summer to early fall of 2019. I believe the second hearing was in January 28th, maybe of 20, just before COVID. And I think the approval was done in June of 20. To be honest with you, me, like many property owners at that point, we're very uncertain that we're taking care of a lot of people that were unemployed, that we provide housing for. I was taking care of a mortgage on one of those properties and keeping commercial tenants that easily could have been put to the door in their places. Simultaneous, we continued some discussion with some people that had been interested in the project, but needless to say, they were not in a position to pull a trigger on building. As a person who's in valuation for a living and have a lot of clients who are also in the hospitality business, I don't think many people saw much action at all well through 20, 21, and well into 22. In terms of new construction, that wasn't already financed or committed to contractually for other obligations. So we've done a tremendous amount of effort. We are the people who have put a lot of money, who have paid a lot of money for that property, and are looking to move forward. Just to digress, in the initial hearing, there was a lot of noise around the hearing itself around the project. A lot of those accusations and undercurrent of some of those discussions were not appreciated, still unappreciated.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and James Doherty - 54</summary>

> Excuse me, if you're not going to speak directly, we don't . . . I'm not . . . I'm getting . . . I think I deserve to get to the point. You're very general right now, and I either need you to be really specific or tie this back to the request.
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 81</summary>

> I'm fine with the comments I've made so far. I'd just like to wrap up, including comments that were attributed from this board on cable TV about the economics of that project and what the status was. This has been over the course of the last year, year and a half. Not one of those people from the department, from this board, before making any of those statements ever spoke to me. That's what I'm referring to, very specifically. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 9</summary>

> Have you closed on this property with the town?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 18</summary>

> I've closed on it a long time ago. So all of . . . it's been fully transacted.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 7</summary>

> You're in full possession of the property.
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 8</summary>

> I am in full possession of the property.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery ? - 37</summary>

> Thank you. Steve?  Oh, sorry. Another question. When you were here last time, here meaning the ARB, and we approved it, you were anticipating that this would be a boutique hotel. Is that still your goal?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 257</summary>

> That's what I'm here requesting the extension for. Gene, you see what's being built in this town. You know what I do for some of my investments, okay? I could have built residential there a long time ago. I could have built it going back into the 17-18 time frame. I could go out and I could do it tomorrow. I'm here because I was from this town. I am from this town. I'm making a major investment not far from you, where I grew up in Jason Heights. I know that house. I grew up there. Did you?  Yeah. Yeah. I could turn around at any moment and change the direction, okay? The economics involved in this project as a proposal to this town, two, the undercurrent of why going three directions. directors of planning and community development back, where they initiated the whole concept about mixed use was to get commercial revenue in this town and somehow create classification as a way for taxpayers to be able to afford to live in this community. This is the only real project that somehow advances that, and I know there's been a lot of discussion on all these projects that have come through. So I sit here tonight continuing to extend my willingness to try to make a good project succeed for myself, my family, and for the town. And to the extent that the board elects not to extend it, I'm fine. I'll move on. I just want to be abundantly clear with that, okay?
</details>
<details><summary>	 ? - 61</summary>

> Any other questions? Yeah, I have a couple other questions. I guess this is not a question, just . . . you're sounding awfully defensive, and I'm not sure why you feel like you need to sound defensive. We really haven't . . . Sure. We haven't really made any decision about this, and we're here to listen and to understand.
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 11</summary>

> I am defensive, and I'll tell you why in a moment.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 48</summary>

> That wasn't a question, I don't think. No. Right. It was a statement. You had mentioned in some previous times the legislature during periods of economic downturn did extend special permit terms, but I don't think they did it that would affect this. Am I right about that?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 283</summary>

> I did not dive that deep. I think the result was because it had more to do with how people went through a lot of permitting process, boards went through a lot of permitting process, and the goal was not if you . . . in a recession, which could be synonymous with what a lot of people thought were going to happen, and did happen to a lot of people during COVID, that really, how are you going to come out the other side? And if I could, because you asked, you inferred it, so I think I'm entitled to respond to you felt that I was defensive. I believe, as all the board members know and the director knows, I've been trying to get dialogue going on this matter since last fall. I've gone months on end of communication to have this discussion, and here we are, as you thankfully noted at the last meeting, that we're at the 11th hour, okay? And again, I'm here not begging, asking, coming how I approached this project when I first put it in, as a economic development package that we can all discuss what the value of that piece of property was without the benefit of knowing that you were going to enter into something that was going to be a joint venture. I'm going to be honest with you. I've never felt a love, never, and I'm not looking for love, okay? I'm looking to work together. Thank you. Do you have any other questions?  Yeah, I do. I do have one other question. I appreciate it. Let me finish my answer, but I'm all done. We're all set. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 119</summary>

> Yeah, I know. I am too. In the time since we issued the permit, there have been some changes in zoning that would affect the building were we to issue the permit now. Examples include the requirement for solar on a roof, the extended stretch code, things like that. And I'm just wondering, I'm just wondering out loud from my colleagues on the board, if there's a way for us to extend the permit, but also impose those other conditions that would have been in place were we to issue the permit now instead. We can certainly discuss. I think that any extension of the permit, we would need to discuss what the conditions are for that extension. Steve?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak and Jim Doherty - 84</summary>

> Let me just ask, do you have any thoughts about that? I'm glad, finally, I get to respond. It doesn't sound like anybody wants to hear my response. I'll give it to Jim to weigh in on whether or not we can impose any type of restrictions. Yeah, I just have one question. You're essentially looking, you're not proposing any change to the plans that were approved in, what was it, August of 2020? I am not, correct. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 131</summary>

> Great, thank you. Ken? Yeah, I'm still supportive of this project. When it first came through, I thought it was a very nice project that would add to the town. The only stipulation I would probably add is, I'm supportive of the two-year extension, but in one year's time, I'd like them to come back to the board and tell us what the progress is in that year's time, so that things are still moving forward. And what they have done in that year is try to keep the communications open between us. It's a two-way dialogue. So if we meet within a year, say, here's what we've done, and then if you don't, then I would say the extension ends at that one-year time. Otherwise, you're looking for two years.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 140</summary>

> Great, thank you, Ken. We'll certainly discuss that after we take public comment. I think that any conditions that we would impose, we would want to discuss after public comment. So at this time, are there any other questions for Mr. Dougherty before we move to public comment? Can I make one last comment? I don't think we have any other questions. So I think at this time, we'll open it up for public comment. So any member of the public who's joined us this evening who wishes to speak regarding the request for extension for this project, if you could please raise your hand. Thank you. And for anyone who is speaking this evening, I will remind you that you will have up to three minutes. Please introduce yourself by your first and last name and address. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Susan Stamps - 323</summary>

> Hi, thank you. My name is Susan Stamps, 39 Grafton Street. I'm a town meeting member and a member of the Tree Committee, although I am not. The Tree Committee did not have a chance to discuss this matter. I emailed the – I only recently found out about this hearing, and I emailed the Redevelopment Board three items that I wanted to consider earlier today, and I'd just like to tell you what those were. One is – the first is that the 2020 Special Permit Section 7A approves planting of so-called flowering pear trees, and as a member of the Tree Committee, I understand that our tree warden no longer plants flowering pear trees because they've been proven to be brittle and invasive. So I would ask that you require the developer to consider – to consult with the tree warden and plant a species recommended by him in writing, or alternatively, to use the Tree Committee's list of recommended urban trees on the Tree Committee's website, ArlingtonTrees.org. Number two, as Mr. Benson pointed out, there have been some additions to the local laws since this permit was originally approved, and one of them is Section 6.3.1 of the Zoning By-law, which requires a developer to plant a street tree every 25 feet along the development, and I would – that is critical to allaying the effects of urban heat island during development and on the streets, and I would ask the Redevelopment Board to include that in any approval of the permit. And then third and last would be what Mr. Benson brought up, which was that since then the Town Meeting has passed the so-called Municipal Opt-in Specialized Stretch Code, known as the Specialized Stretch Code, which has much stronger requirements for energy-efficient building, and it would be a tragedy to have this project go forward without those newer energy provisions that the Town Meeting has requested. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Anne LaRoyer - 125</summary>

> Thank you. Any other members of the public wishing to speak this evening, please? Anne LaRoyer, 12 Pierce Street, a neighbor of this site, and I've had a lot of concerns about the project from the very beginning, but the fact that it may be delayed even longer means that the site remains unimproved, and it's not a very attractive site. One of the arguments to make the hotel in the first place was to clean up the property, but it hasn't been cleaned up, so I'm just concerned about how much longer it's going to stay in its rather untempered state. I know there's lots of other issues, but that's just an immediate concern of how long it's going to be left. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 155</summary>

> Thank you. Any other members of the public wishing to speak this evening? Okay, seeing no hands, we will close public comment and turn it back to the Board for discussion. I'm sorry, did I miss somebody? Okay. So Ken has suggested that he is in support of the two-year extension with a request for in one year's time there to be progress. I'm concerned that no progress has been made and that two-year extension is too long and there is too long to go if we offer an extension at all. Like Ms. LaRoyer indicated, the site has not been maintained, and it continues to really be a challenge for the community that nothing has happened here. And to Gene's point, quite a lot has happened in the intervening years, and I don't have a lot of confidence that this is going to move forward, even with the extension. Gene, what are your thoughts?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 164</summary>

> I guess the concept, I think, is still a worthwhile concept. It's hard for me to judge whether it could have moved forward during the three years because Mr. Dougherty says it can't. You're in the business, and you say, yes, these things have moved forward in the past three years. I think two years is too long. I'm not sure what I would do. I'm not sure what I would do, but if it were shorter than two years, and if it had to comply with all of the current zoning, including what town meeting just passed, well, I think what town meeting just passed doesn't affect it. No, we can't require that yet. Well, we can, because once it's passed. Once it's passed, yes. Once it's passed, but none of it affects it. But I think all of the current zoning, which would, you know, things town one, I'd consider it, but I want to hear what everyone has to say. Sure.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 183</summary>

> Steve?  Yeah, regarding the enhanced stretch code, that's basically a building permit requirement, is it not? Yes. So it's not something that we would, you know, it's the condition, if the applicant were to get a building permit, he would have to build to those codes. Correct. There is no, yes, Ken was just weighing in as well. Because there has been no building permit application, he has not circumvented needing to comply with that. Yeah, I'm tending to agree with Mr. Lau in that I'm okay with a two-year extension, but I would like to see evidence of movement after a year. And I do agree that there, with some of the suggested condition modifications, like to the tree species and compliance with the tree planting bylaw, like a tree every 25 feet on frontage. In other words, basically, if we were to extend it, I'd like to see us include conditions that are in the bylaw today. So those conditions would be the 6.3.1, the street tree plantings, the compliance with the solar bylaw? Yes. Gene, am I missing any?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 158</summary>

> I can't think of any, but I think if we say we would have to comply with the current zoning bylaw, not the bylaw in place when we issue the special permit. I think the challenge, I think we need to be more specific about that, to be honest, because I think we need to make it clear to, I mean, if we're going to request that, I think we need to be clear with the applicant, rather than having them have to go through and scrub as to what the specific requirements would be. I think that that's only fair. So, you know, we could, nothing is going to happen in the next two weeks. So we certainly could continue it and make sure that we work with Claire to make sure that we have a full list of those items. I think that the two major items are the street trees and the solar bylaw. Yes.
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 37</summary>

> Madam Chair, I would be happy with those provisions and just changes to the planting plan. The planting plan?  In terms of the request that they comply with the tree committee's current list of approved species.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 207</summary>

> Yes. Ken, any other conditions that you would want to put on any extension? I just want to say that I think the time frame that I said, about a year and two years, is pretty fair. I just want to clarify that within that year's time, I think we want to know, you know, have they reached an agreement with a hotel flight? That's the kind of stuff I'm interested in. I just don't want them to say we're still in progress. I want names of the hotels they've been talking to. Have they entered into contact with an architect to start the working drawings for a building permit at the end of the two years? That kind of stuff. It's going to take about, roughly about nine months, maybe a year, to produce the full set of drawings and the value engineering or whatever for the hotel. So, within that one year time, we'll know. Has an architect been hired?  Has the hotel flight been determined? And I think that is fair to not force them into something rough, you know, and keep it going. So, I just want to reiterate that that one year, I think is pretty fair. That's all I'm saying.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 94</summary>

> Thank you, Ken. I think one year is too long to wait for an update. I agree with you. I think it's going to take some time for the full design and development team to create the documentation that's ready for permit. But if we extend it, I would want no more than six months and update. Because, again, I think that we've gone this long with literally no movement. And for, I think we owe it to the community to keep a tighter eye on this to make sure that it moves forward.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Jim Doherty - 92</summary>

> You're saying two, six months? A six month and a one year update and still keep the extension? I think that would be a compromise. I'm suggesting that as a possibility. Again, just to ensure that in another year we don't have the same situation that we're in right now. Okay. Because if we are, you know, at some point we have to say, you know, should this project continue as originally approved, which was started back in 2019, or is it at that point something that needs to be fully re-permitted?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 33</summary>

> I'd be okay with a six month first initial progress, one year, another, with the full extension being two years, or the permit and ballot for two years. I'd be okay with that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 36</summary>

> Gene? I'd be interested in hearing from Mr. Daugherty about whether he can meet this time frame. Great. Mr. Daugherty, can you speak to a six-month progress check-in if it's important to grant a two-year extension?
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 234</summary>

> I have no problem with the six-month check-in. I was going to mention this earlier. I'm the person paying the bills. I will tell you, we won't be sitting here in another year unless I'm going to build a hotel, talking about a hotel. We may be back here in six months if that doesn't happen, and I will be letting you know I will be building something else. I'm the person that's carried this for the time. I appreciate your insight and everyone else's concern. It was an automotive use before I bought it. It can continue to be an automotive use. I'm trying to do something better here. I'd appreciate your support. Thank you. Just to be clear, while I have the microphone, I'm not trying to be disagreeable, but I think it's wholly unfair to ask me if I should accept some of the changes to the bylaws that have a cost effect to me, while not also acknowledging, I believe, that the FAR on that site went from 1.5 to 3.0. So if we're going to open things up, then I think we should be discussing that as well so that there's even balance to both sides. So I'm not saying yes or no to anything, but I'm just saying when you talk about some things that went through, the FAR for that site, as you all know, has doubled.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 125</summary>

> It has. And actually, that's something that if you did want to take advantage of that and wanted to ask the board to reopen the permit or to start a new permit to be able to take advantage of those items, you have not started construction on that site. You've not submitted anything. You are wholly within your rights to be able to do that. So that is certainly not a threat to the board. It is certainly not something to be used as a threat to the board, but it's something we would embrace if that is something that you wanted to take on, to relook at the FAR, that we would be more than happy to discuss what that process would look like.
</details>
<details><summary>	 James Doherty - 232</summary>

> I greatly appreciate that, but I also want to be abundantly clear. There was no threat there. My thing was very simple, that, you know, you're asking for someone to expend more money on something, and I'm not even necessarily opposed to it, but I'm just saying if we're going to have that dialogue, we should have it in a holistic way so we can look at all of those things. All I'm saying is, as much as I'd like to tell you, I would do that yesterday. The bottom line is, we have something that we've had a lot of input from people, good, bad, and different. We have something that's approved. Not what I wanted, not what you wanted necessarily, but it's there. So I'm trying to be more practical, and I'll be frank. You guys know it. I know it. No operator is going to walk in there and say the rooms are perfect, the restaurant space is perfect, the vent coming through the roof is perfect. So there was going to be some type of minor engineering changes. So I'm with you on the big scheme of things, and I have a lot of relatives that have been with you for a long, long time, but I wanted to do something that I felt was extremely tasteful and beneficial to the town. So I appreciate all your time.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 172</summary>

> I think that the most important thing, again, the town sold this parcel for this project to happen. And so to us, as a board, and maybe I'll just speak for me, and you all can as well, to me the most important thing is that the town who sold this property to you with the promise that this would be developed, this was then handed to the redevelopment board to ensure that we worked together with you for a project that would be built. And so the most important thing I think that now rests on this board is that we figure out the best cadence to work together with you to ensure that as the select board conveyed that property, that that property is used for the best outcome for the town. We all want to see this project built. Everybody in that community wants to see this continue to lay vacant for another three years. And so the check-ins are the only vehicle at this point that we have-
</details>
<details><summary>	 Jim Doherty - 263</summary>

> I'm not opposed to it. I'm not insulted by it. To make sure that that moves forward. I just want to make sure that throughout the process, we have going to what you just mentioned, get to that because I will just tell you, it was sorely missing before. Not from the board per se, but I'm going to just give you one example. They had in Arlington Heights, just the beginning meetings of the Arlington Heights Neighborhood Association. I went to the meeting at Allen School, the first meeting they had. I then followed up with someone who's no longer employed here and asked them if I could get the contact name for that group. They said, they don't want to be contacted. Give me your name if they want to talk to you. I just didn't feel that that was an economic development process type thing. So I'm all for you. I'm trying to be positive. I'm moving that way. I don't look in the rear view mirror. So I'm very happy with what you just mentioned at the end there, because it's been a lot of pressure on me personally, and I'm not crying, don't get me wrong, but I'm not a dumb person. When you know you have 3.0 and you get approved for 1.67, it doesn't take a math scientist to figure out what's more beneficial, but that's not always the case. But we may get there for other reasons. So I appreciate your time, and I know you want to keep me brief. I don't blame you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 49</summary>

> Okay. So I just want to turn it back to the Board, because we either need to decide we have a finding this evening or we need to continue this for another week. So Steve, would you like to weigh in on where you're currently leaning at this point?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 146</summary>

> Yes. So I take Mr. Doherty's point that the bylaw has changed in multiple directions, and yes, if he were to reapply today, there would be a much higher FAR limit. So I'm more inclined to, I think I am at this point more inclined to do sort of just like a clean extension, so no change to conditions, no change to the plans. But with the check-ins as, you know, have been described earlier, if there is mutual agreement to, if Mr. Doherty would want to, you know, basically reopen and bring forward a different set of plans that conform to the current bylaw, you know, then we, you know, possibly building to a higher FAR, then, you know, I think that's something we can That's a separate discussion around whether or not, yeah, that's a separate discussion. But for now, I'm thinking clean extension.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 145</summary>

> Okay. Gene? I'm okay with the two years. I like the idea of a check-in at six months and one year. I'm not okay with the clean extension, because we could just as easily say no, and then he would have to start all over again, and he, I'm not sure he can get up to FAR of three on that site anyhow, but I would, and the two things are not very expensive. You know, the tree planting bylaw is not expensive at all, and the solar bylaw will pay for itself in a relatively short period of time. So I would like those added, and I would like us to sort of make clear that if there are significant changes to the project, for example, if it's no longer a boutique hotel, but it's a chain hotel, that's not going to be acceptable.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 126</summary>

> I am in full agreement with your suggestions, Gene. Ken? I'm in agreement with Steve. I'd like to keep this as clean as possible. A two-year extension with the check-in at six months and one month, and I leave it as an option, an owner's option, Mrs. Donovan, to look at some of the changes, but not to go back and revisit the city that was renamed before. Yes, we could have, I think if we add a new one after we, you know, just give a text. If we just have, after we say yes, and then we add things on, because I don't believe So I'm going to leave it at that, and say I agree with Steve, and I would vote for that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Board - 321</summary>

> Okay, well, we're going to need to hash this one out, because I will not vote to extend it if we aren't able to do the requests for the additional compliance with the new street tree by-law and the solar by-law. Gene, I'm not sure what your position is. That's the way I feel, also. So, And if we're deadlocked, the permit's going to expire in a few weeks. Is the, does extending a permit require a two-thirds vote? Because it would take a two-thirds vote, it would take four to grant this. Right. So, if, like, just, you know, counting the votes, if two vote no, then that's, you know, then basically the permit runs out. And I would not vote no if there were additional conditions on it, because I would like the applicant to have a, I'd like to give the applicant a little more time. I do understand, you know, the effect that the pandemic had. So, we're giving him more time. He just has to do two minor things. Yep. So, you would be, so we need to find out whether we need four extension. There's no answer. I looked at it. You already looked at it? The, yeah, there's nothing in our by-law about that. That talks about the extension? Or in 48. Okay. About that. But I think the, to me, the better interpretation is we need four. I would agree. I would agree. So, Steve, so you could get behind the, or could not. I could. You could get behind requiring 6.3.1 and the solar by-law to be required, as well as the current, the list of. The tree species. Tree species that are currently approved by the tree warden. I would, I would prefer a clean extension, but I could get behind the provisions that you stated. Okay. Ken, is that something that you could get behind? Or would you be opposed?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 468</summary>

> To those provisions. You're not going to vote yes. Then it's a new, right? I mean. It doesn't really matter what I say. Well, we would again, we would if it if we need for again, because we are only a board of four right now when we need for votes to move this forward, we would, you know, either need you to accept that compromise, or we would not be able to move forward this evening and we need to continue and have further discussion. Well, I think the tree thing is pretty minor. One or two trees is not going to kill the project. What I'm concerned about is the solar. Okay, you're saying we're saying we have to meet the solar requirements of putting solar panels up there. And that project was never designed to have solar panels up there. All right, so that's going to change the whole architecture how that thing looks. So you're I think you're just adding something on that's going to really change the whole character thing where we had approved already. So where we had rooftop units, there was a farm that was closing by fences between the two cores. There's very little room for solar panels that go up there. Or something else is going to change is that I don't know what I'm not sure what the consequences is by just simply saying we're going to meet the new requirements. The solar bylaw has exemptions in it. If the roof can't handle it, if it's pointed in the wrong direction, if it's shaded. So if it doesn't meet any of those requirements, it shouldn't be very difficult for solar to be added to the roof. So what I'm saying is, if it is, if you come back and says I can't add solar to the roof because of the following reasons that it met the obligations, then our obligation to add it to the roof is then no longer valid. And all it is is the trees, adding some trees. Correct, but the onus would be on the developer, much like with many, many items that are in the zoning code to ensure that they have made the effort towards compliance. There are a number of exemptions in the solar bylaw. And he could explain how he meets one of the exemptions. And then if he does, he doesn't have to do it. But if he doesn't meet any of these exemptions, then he would have to do it. And the building's not completely designed yet. So I don't think it's a burden. I will go along with compromise, just because I want to see this project go forward. And I'll leave it up to Mr. Berry to decide if he wants to do so or not.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 395</summary>

> Okay. So is there a motion from the board to approve a two-year extension with regular six-month check-ins over that two-year period with the redevelopment board, with the conditions that the current zoning bylaw sections 6.3.1 for street trees and 6.4 for solar energy systems be incorporated into the project, as well as the tree plantings for the project be specified in accordance with the current approved list of species by the town? And can we pick a date as opposed to two years? So the permit would expire, as I figured this out, on December 8, because that was the date three years ago of the court decision. So we would extend this to December 8, 2025. Thank you. And yes, I think we can do that. And we can work as we go through our list of meetings. In our next agenda item, we can identify which meetings we would like the applicant to come back and provide updates for this year. Would we like to, in terms of crafting a motion, we've settled on when two years is. Would we like to settle on when six months is? That's what I'm saying. What I'd like to do is make sure that we look at our, and I could do that now. Might as well. So our 2024 meeting schedule. Be May 6. Which may be in the middle of town meeting. So let's call this, which should be fine because, yeah, let's call it May 6. Okay. Okay. All right. So is there, let me restate the motion. Is there a motion to extend this special permit two years to December 8, 2025, with regular six-month check-ins, the first of which being May 6, 2024, and the future date set thereafter, with the additional provision that the applicant comply with Section 6.3.1 for street trees, Section 6.4, the solar bylaw, and that the tree species that are specified within the project are in compliance with the approved species as approved by the town. And Section 6.3 public shade trees. You didn't mention. I did. Yes. 6.3 shade trees and 6.4 solar bylaw. Okay. I will. So move. I will second. Great. We'll take a vote starting with Ken. Gene. Yes. Steve. Yes. And I'm a yes as well. Thank you very much. We will now close. Docket number 3602, 1207-1211 Mass Ave.
</details></details>
<details><summary>2024 Meeting Schedule</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Others - 1150</summary>

> Let's now move to Agenda Item Number 4, which is the 2024 ARB Meeting Schedule. Claire, thank you for drafting this meeting schedule. I'm sorry, I'm just trying to pull this up, give me a second. Here we go. So, as is typical, I believe that the base schedule has us meeting the first and third Monday of every month, with exceptions made for holidays and other times of year when it is more challenging to meet. I did want to identify, I believe that the April 15th meeting date is during school vacation week, so I wanted to see if we could move that date either to April 8th or 22nd. I'm assuming that the 22nd is Passover, so that wouldn't be a great date. So maybe we most likely will need additional dates leading up to town meetings, so I'm wondering if the 1st, the 8th, and the 29th become our three dates in April. Is there any objection to that? So rather than April 15th, that's just a challenge for me because it's school vacation week and my plans are not yet fixed. So my thought was April 1, April 8, and April 29th is the three April meeting dates. And then the other dates I wanted to look at were the July dates and any August dates. That's a long period where we don't have any meetings right now in July. So unless we already have a challenge with July 15th, was rather than July 8th to do July 1st and 15th and maybe the 5th of August, we can always eliminate if, you know, again I know the people's plans aren't fixed yet, but I'd rather have a couple of dates in there because that was a challenge I know this year without having those dates on the calendar. So I wanted to propose that and see what the board thought. Do we do August as a tentative because we normally have taken August off? Correct. Would you be okay, Ken, with July 1st and 15th rather than the 1st and the 8th? Just to give us a little bit further into July as the meeting date. Either way is fine with me. Okay. And then let's do a tentative date for August 5th. Can I have one more request? Yes. Can we schedule in a retreat for the board members for next year's direction and issues? Yes, we talked about doing that once the new board member was on board. One of the items that I'd like to put on the agenda for our next meeting in two weeks is to talk about the schedule leading up to Springtown meeting because that's going to be the Arlington Heights Business District. Congratulations on a great show at Falltown meeting, but we've got to jump right into Springtown meeting prep. I'm actually looking forward to that. I am too. There's a lot of excitement in the community about that one. I think that, Ken, to your point, perhaps we look at an early December date or an early January date, but we need to schedule something, I think, where, again, we bring in the new board member and talk through. I have quite a list of items that we had earmarked potentially for 2024 Springtown meeting, and we, sooner rather than later, need to go through and determine which of those we are, in fact, going to move forward with. We can do that at the retreat. That's typically a great time to do that. We obviously will do that in one of these public forums as well. Not that the retreat isn't public. That is public as well. What are your thoughts, Ken, on dates for that? Or Claire? I'll request. We had talked about doing the retreat in early December. Yes. I think when it came up before. I think December is better than January. And Shana will be on after the 20th. I saw that our fifth board member is going before the select board on Wednesday. Correct. Correct. So they would. That's correct. I'm in the wrong year. That's not helpful. They would be available for the 20th, the meeting on the 20th, November 20th. So just looking ahead, Saturdays are all soccer all the time for me. So they can be a little bit challenging. I can make that work. Sundays are a little bit better. I'll, for the sake of putting a pin in something, what about? December. Third. Third. We could potentially make that work. Contingent upon the availability. It's a Sunday. It's a Sunday. I can make a Saturday work there just a little bit more logistically challenging. I can do December 3rd. So do we want to tentatively look at December 3rd? And we can finalize that date on the 20th. Sure. Hopefully before then we can communicate back and forth. And if we need to identify a backup date, we can do that. Great. Okay. Fabulous. For the schedule. Yes. I cannot be here on June 3rd. Okay. Then let's find another date for that one. Can we do June 10th and 17th? Sure. Would we want to? 10th and 24th. The other thing we could do, we could run off schedule a little bit in June and do 10th and 17th. That's fine. Thank you. All right. 10th and 17th. One more request. Yep. On the retreat on the 3rd. Yes. Can we get an update on past projects that we've approved already to date?  Where the status of that is? You know, the project next to the CVS, where that's staying right now. Some of the other projects that we've approved, you know, they're probably two years in. Some may be three. Some might be one year in. I just want to know where everything is standing right now with all the projects we've done in the last, say, three to four years that's been approved. Okay. Is that too much to ask, Claire? I will do the best I can. But I should be able to provide an update, at least, on everything we've done in the past year or two, for sure. I can see how far I can go back, though. Okay. Thank you very much. Sure. Great. Any other requests? We can put together an agenda for that retreat ahead of time and circulate that for review. Okay. Great. All right. So, let's see. Let me come back to my agenda. So, do we need to vote on this board schedule as amended? We will. Okay. Is there a motion to approve the board schedule as amended? So moved. Is there a second? Second. We'll take a vote, starting with Ken. Yes. Gene? Yes. Steve? Yes. And I'm a yes as well. The board schedule for 2024 has been approved. All right. Let's close agenda item number four and
</details></details>
<details><summary>Open Forum</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 36</summary>

> move to agenda item number five, which is open forum. Does anyone who is still with us this evening have anything you would like to share? Seeing nothing, we will close agenda item number five and
</details></details>
<details><summary>New Business and Adjourn</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 9</summary>

> move to agenda item number six, new business. Claire?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 65</summary>

> The only new business I have to share with the board is your fifth member. I had an interview with Jim Feeney, and she still is very graciously agreed to become a member of this board to be confirmed by the select board on Wednesday and then sworn in and at your meeting on the 20th. Fantastic. Great. Thank you for moving that forward. Sure.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 93</summary>

> Gene? I have two things related to the town meeting addressing the MBTA communities, and we didn't really have a chance to discuss this ahead of time. I think we, I'm not sure who the we is, needs to put together an application for site plan review, so when someone comes in and, you know, it's no longer EDR review, but their site plan review, that we have that already for when the first one comes in. So I don't know, Claire, if you and the department want to do the first cut.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker Eugene Benson - 322</summary>

> Sure. We can put together a draft. Absolutely. I think that would be great. If not for the 20th, then certainly for the board retreat or the fourth, meeting on the fourth. Yeah. Yeah. And that would include, that would go into the rules and regulations as well. We'd need to include. Maybe we need to look and see, because I don't think the EDR applications. It's not, but I think we had it earmarked, and I have it in my notes, that there is a section of our rules and regulations which does need to be, which does need to address site plan review. Okay. And the other is, maybe a report next time on where are we on the inclusionary zoning piece and what's going to be happening. And I think just the general application process as well. That's something that would be great for us to be able to publicly report on. Sure. Oh, yeah. I guess I could have shared this as part of new business. I did have a conversation with the state, excuse me, with the, well, with both the state and the consultant on the economic feasibility analysis that is progressing. MAPC is our consultant there. We are, we plan to, I did speak with the state. They said, you know, please use their regular portal to submit our final NVTA communities language. You know, this was sort of in concert with them trying to do a pre-adoption review for us. So they do have all of our documents. They'd just like for me to formally submit them again. And this will be done in a parallel process with the Attorney General's submission. So I have some folks on staff working on that. Some folks on staff working on the submission to EOHLC. But they will be done on a parallel process. And working with the city clerk on that as well. Town clerk, sorry.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 58</summary>

> Anything else, Gene? So we're going to put in the NVTA community zoning before we put in the inclusionary zoning because that's not going to be ready as quickly, right? That's correct. Okay. Yeah. The state knows it's coming. And that's why that's written in that way. So that they can do their review. Right. Anything else? Steve?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 79</summary>

> So it's fall. So there is an organization called the Massachusetts Citizen Planner Training Collaborative. And every year they put together a set of courses that are held virtually. They're fairly inexpensive and they deal with kinds of things that planning and zoning boards that come up in the context of planning and zoning boards. Their schedule was posted, I think, last week. And I believe there is a module on site plan review, which I'm hoping to attend.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 66</summary>

> Great. Fabulous. Thank you for doing that, Steve. Great. Any other questions? No. I'm all set. I just spilled tea all over myself. Oh, no. Well, with that, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We'll take a vote starting with Ken. Yes. Gene? Yes. Steve? Yes. And I'm a yes as well. This meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Thanks, Ken.  Thank you.
</details></details>