### Arlington Redevelopment Board  [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_VS_R5NGbzk) [agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1964&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda)

<details><summary>Opening</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 159</summary>

> I'm calling the meeting of the November 20th meeting of the Town of Arlington Redevelopment Board to order. We will first go through and introduce ourselves for the record, and then move on to our agenda. My name is Rachel Zender, Chair of the Redevelopment Board, and I am so excited that we have a new record to look at this evening, so we'll go through and introduce ourselves and move on from there. So, Steve. Steve Revellach, good evening. Eugene Benson. Shana Corman-Houston. Ken Low. And we also have Claire Rickard, the Director of the Department of Planning and Community Development this evening. Community Development with us this evening. I apologize, it's been a long day. Rachel, I wonder if we all want to say something about ourselves and Shana say something about herself. We could do that. So, so that you don't need to go first, Steve, do you want to say a little bit about yourself?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak - 52</summary>

> Well, I am the second, so I am the second newest member of the ARB. I'm the gubernatorial appointee. I develop software for a living, and I've just been participating in these sort of town boards for a while, and I know Shana from working together on the MBTA Communities Working Group.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 60</summary>

> Great. Thank you. Gene? And I'm Gene Benson. I'm a very retired lawyer. A lot of environment, environmental justice, and land use stuff, and for this purpose I taught planning and land use law for about a decade, and BUS program, and city planning and urban affairs, and I've been on this board for about six and a half years.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Shana Corman-Houston - 41</summary>

> Great. Thanks. Thanks. So I'm Shana Corman-Houston. I'm so excited to join you all. I work for a non-profit affordable housing organization, and I know Stephen Kim through the MBTA Communities Working Group, and I'm excited to get started this evening.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 89</summary>

> Great. Fantastic. We have a full agenda of topics for the spring to dive into, I think, a little bit tonight. So I'm Rachel Zempery. I've been on the Redevelopment Board since 2019, chair for the past three years, almost three years, two and a half years, and I'm an architect. I have a design firm in Boston with offices in L.A. and Columbus, and we do a lot of commercial work, housing work, so a lot of the types of things that we see in front of us.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 181</summary>

> Hi. My name's Ken Lau. I guess I'm the oldest ... Most tenured. Tenured. Because I'm the oldest. Okay. Most tenured board member here. I'm not sure. It's my third or fourth term. I don't recall. I guess I am the vice chair, which I do not much. Rachel carries the weight of the committee here. Worked for an architectural firm. I've been on the Redevelopment Board since 2019, chair for the past three years, two and a half years, two and a half years. I have a design firm in Boston with offices in L.A. and Columbus, and we do a lot of commercial work, housing work, so a lot of the types of things that we see in front of us. I guess I'm the oldest ... Most tenured. Tenured. Because I'm the oldest. Okay. I guess I am the vice chair, which I do not much. That's the makeup of our board. I wonder if we all have a variety of unique perspectives that I really appreciate that we were able to bring to one of these discussions.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Review Meeting Minutes</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 33</summary>

> Great. Let's dive right into our first agenda item. The first item tonight is a review of the meeting minutes from November 6, 2023. Are there any additions or corrections, starting with Ken?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 84</summary>

> Yes. On the third page ... One, two, three, fourth paragraph up, from the bottom, the last sentence, well, the previous one says, Mr. Lau suggested that he's okay with the two-year extension, but wants to see evidence of progress after a year. It says he would like the applicant to be required to meet the current conditions. I want to say he would like ... He doesn't feel the applicant is required to meet the new requirements of the new zoning 45 policy.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 30</summary>

> That's right. Ken was not in favor of that stipulation. I don't know how you want to re-quote that, but yeah, it's the opposite of what that is. Got it.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 101</summary>

> And on the second to last paragraph, it states that he thinks that one year is fair to show the kind of progress ... That's not quite what I meant. I meant that it would probably take a year to do the architectural work and engineering work, so ... Just a bit for permit. Yeah, just a bit for permit. So giving a two-year extension felt fine to me, because a part of it was almost a year or more, and then he had to find financing and everything else to go along with that. So that was my explanation there.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 83</summary>

> Great. Any other additions or corrections? Gene? None. Steve?  None. I don't have any either, so is there a motion to approve the meeting minutes as amended? So moved. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor ... We'll take a roll call vote, actually, starting with Ken. Yes. Steve? Yes. And I know you'll need to abstain. Need to abstain. And I am a yes as well, so those have been approved. All right, that closes agenda item number one.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Meeting Schedule</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 47</summary>

> We will now move to the second agenda item, which is the meeting schedule, and I'll turn it over to Claire. We had previously discussed some potential dates for our 2023 board retreat. That's right. Thank you. Is this picking me up in the right way? Okay.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 201</summary>

> I have reached out to APD to see if we could get their conference room for December 3rd, which I think was the date we had sort of tentatively circled on our calendar for our retreat. I have asked for the room from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., but obviously we do not have to stay that long. We could meet from 10 to 2 or 9 to 1 or whatever people think makes sense. If I can't get that room, then we'll likely meet here in the community center, and I can reserve it again for 9 to 3, and then we can decide which four-hour block we'd like to take in that duration of time. So as long as the board is still okay with the third and maybe 10 to 2 or 9 to 1, it doesn't matter really to me how long we'd like to meet for. We can certainly move ahead with that. Sounds good. I'd like to suggest that perhaps we plan for 9 to noon and have a discussion around that, and then once we work through the agenda, we identify whether that feels like it's sufficient time for us to work through everything.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Others - 543</summary>

> Sounds good. I know you were coming in from Lowe's on Sunday, so I just want to make sure that time would be okay with you. It's fine with me. Okay, great. We'll start with Steve. For any discussion or thoughts on timing and date? I'm fine with the third. I would prefer 10 to 1, but could do 9 to noon. 10 to 1 works better for you? I have no objections to that. Gene? Either time on the third is fine. Okay. Shana?  Yeah. Kieran? 10 to 1 is great for me. All right. 10 to 1 work for you, Claire? That works for me just fine. Okay. Let's do that then. All right. So we will set that meeting schedule. I know that I'm keeping a list, and I believe that Claire is, too, of potential topics for the board retreat. So we will circulate those in the next week. We need to get that posted by next Thursday. Okay. So I sent you my list earlier. If I have any edits to that, we can work through that, and maybe you and I can just work through the agenda. Okay. Sounds good. Great. Can we add to the agenda the status of Project STIRP for the last three years? Oh, yes. You got it. It's already on there. Thank you. Yep. Why don't I just read through what I have on the agenda right now, and that way, again, I'll keep adding to it this evening if we identify other things that are added to it. But we had talked about strategies for keeping closer tabs on adherence to property developments with provisions of the special permit. Having a discussion, we'll see where we get this evening with regard to discussion around potential warrant articles for spring 2024 town meeting. So if there's any type of working session that we need to have, we can discuss whether to include that at the retreat. We had talked about reviewing a draft of the site plan review application, updated rules and regulations related to site plan review. I think we should just make sure that we have a finalized 2024 meeting schedule, and we can go through that one more time now with Shana, who has joined us, so that we can make sure that that still is aligned. Passed and approved project status. And we had begun discussion around potential urban renewal plans. And so I think that that's something that we could continue the discussion on. Anything else that people are tracking that I may not have on my list? All right. I just wonder if that includes the Atwood House, because if it doesn't, I think it should. Yes. That would fall both under updates for past approved project status and potentially urban renewal plans. Okay. Yeah, but I will make a specific note of it. And I will have an update on the Atwood House at that time. Great. And again, if there are other things that we think of this evening or that you would like us to include before we post that on Thursday of next week, please just reach out to Claire and to myself. All right. That closes agenda item number two.
</details></details>
<details><summary>Zoning Amendments Preliminary Discussion</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 30</summary>

> So we'll now move to agenda item number three, which includes zoning amendments, preliminary discussion for the 2024 spring town meeting. And Claire, I will turn it over to you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 610</summary>

> Great. So I put this list together from Rachel's running list of items, discussion items we were looking to potentially progress to a spring town meeting, including the Islands and Heights Business District and the reduced height buffer area, which I know this board has talked about on several occasions. You know, the B1 zone, looking at Walgreens site, rezoning cemeteries to a new cemetery zone or open space zone. I spoke with David Morgan also this afternoon. He is interested in looking at any conservation properties or potentially parks and rec managed properties, parks department or even select board that are currently either used as open space or are open space, a big park or whatever, that are also zoned residential. So that looks like it could potentially be expanded to include some other areas. The church properties in town, obviously those are not necessarily our one. One that I am interested in, which is illuminated signs to be approved via an administrative process. I'm not getting a lot of sign applications that are not illuminated. And yet, you know, often they fit the zoning in all of the ways. And I want to make sure that, you know, in the ARBs, those regulations, you have jurisdiction over most illuminated signs. So I would like to be able to, or the department would be interested in being able to approve those administratively. And then TDM via resident, with residential provisions. And I think, Jean, this might have been something that you were looking to progress. I can't remember who brought this up. So this was sort of what's on the table right now. Also, we have a really great and rather exhaustive list of zoning recommendations that have come out of our recent plans. We kind of lined them up, put this list together before our retreat last year. Some of these have been achieved, I want to say, you know, over the last two town meetings. Some are still outstanding. Some, I think, are adjacent to, you know, other items that they're looking to talk about and progress in the next spring town meeting. But still, you know, this list endures. And it's something that we could take a look at to bring forward. Additionally, we have some articles that have been suggested by the ZBA. Some are administrative. You know, some, I think, might require more discussion by this board. One is potentially eliminating Section 5.7 and 5.8, which is the Inland Wetland Overlay District. You know, the ZBA and the COMCOM had two projects that are where the Inland Wetland Overlay District has applied in the past year or so. And the requirements have both been waived as the regulations of the Conservation Commission have achieved what the Inland Wetland District would have otherwise achieved without COMCOM's intervention. So those are a few that we have on the table right now. I don't know if folks would like to start talking about just the ARBO. Excuse me, Steve, you forwarded me the Zoning for Flood Resilience from Ms. Pam Eidel. Looking at making some changes to the zoning bylaws in support of, you know, climate goals. You know, and that's also up for discussion and consideration. Before we open it up, I do just want to mention that Christian Klein, the chair of the ZBA, did reach out to Claire and myself, and we have tentatively scheduled them to come in and speak to us about their proposed warrant articles on December 18th, together with the representative from the Conservation Commission, since one or more of them have to do with the Conservation Commission as well.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 212</summary>

> Great. Thank you, Claire. You're welcome. So what I would like to propose is perhaps we first—I'd like to propose perhaps tabling the ZBA items until December 18th when we have the discussion with the ZBA and the Conservation Commission. And perhaps we start with the list that I've been keeping every time somebody says, we should look at that at the next town meeting. And then from there see if—run through those, decide which, if any, of these we would like to consider for 2024, knowing that the Arlington Heights Business District is probably going to take a bit of time and energy. I do want to mention that I am also starting to already keep a list for 2025 town meeting because we had identified that after Arlington Heights we would look at East Arlington, East of Orvis Street as part of the work that we did for the MBTA communities work. So if there's anything that we decide, for example, is a good idea, we're not sure that this is the time to do it, I can always move those to a future date. I'd like to propose that and then we can see what else gets added to the list. Ken, do you want to start us off?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau and Rachel Zsembery - 317</summary>

> Priorities of maybe what we have on the list here and anything we think we might be missing? I think I want to at least talk about it in the retreat. In the past, we met with the Select Board as a co-meeting and aligned our strategies and aligned what we're thinking of doing, what they're thinking of doing. And having a co-meeting like that would also be helpful. In the past, they were interested in doing that with us. I'm just wondering, would they be willing to continue and maybe set up a meeting for that to happen? As we identify our articles? I would say something after our retreat. So we say, here are some of our goals, here are some things we want to be doing. Does this align with what you guys are doing? Or do you want us to reconsider certain things based on what they know and just better communication between the two boards? I would be more than happy to talk to Eric about that and see if we can come up with an appropriate time. It sounds like in early January. We need to do that. I'm sure the warrant will open, as it typically does, in mid-January and close by the end of that month. Okay. If it doesn't happen then, it's not the end of the world. Sure. It doesn't have to be around the warrants. It could be just how we see the future of this town. Yep. Moving forward. I'm happy to follow up with the select board on that. Set that up. Thank you. Yep. Any other thoughts on the warrant articles? Your priorities on the warrant articles that we've proposed reviewing? Or anything you think might be missing? There's a lot here. I think we need to go over and do things to develop from it. Okay. I'm okay with what's listed here.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Stephen Revilak and Rachel Zsembery - 765</summary>

> Okay. Great. Steve? Well, I do have a few questions. May I ask a few questions? Absolutely. About the list? With respect to eliminating or rezoning B-1 properties, what's the sort of like thinking or high-level goal? I think, Gene, this is something that you may have brought up during our review of the business area parcels as we were running in the lead up to MBTA communities. So, Gene, do you want to highlight your thinking here? Yes. It will be a very low-light highlight. As Rachel and I were walking Mass Ave. and Broadway this summer looking at what had been the proposal of the working group, we were like, gee, I wonder why these properties are B-1. Does it even make sense to have B1 properties on Mass Ave. and Broadway anymore?  That was about the extent of the thinking at that point, so it didn't, it was just, should we look at that? Does it make sense, considering the direction the town has gone in the past decade, to continue to have B1? And if not, what to do with it? If yes, do we want to make any changes to it? Didn't get beyond that. Oh, okay. Because I could see, like, allowed some of those uses on secondary roads, like feeder streets, and just, but moving them off Mass Ave makes sense to me. And what was the motivation for making Walgreens B4? Gene, this is another one from the walk. Yeah, I don't remember this one from the walk. I remember this one kicking around the ARB for years, though. What is it? I believe it's B2A, isn't it? Which is pretty much the same. Okay. I think, Steve, a long time ago, when I remember, we were talking about where we could increase density along Mass Ave for businesses. And Walgreens was one of the sites that was somehow tagged as being underdeveloped, underserved. And I think that's where that spun off of. It's a very large parcel. It's in a very predominant area along Mass Ave. There's other parcels. That's why I think when we get to a retreat, I also like to bring up other parcels along with the Walgreens, like the central parking area, the center of town, other areas that are large areas that we should also look into. But that could be a lead-in. But that's how that sort of came from. It's probably been on there. I think Gene's correct. I don't know. Four or five years. I remember Kenny talking about it for as long as I was on the bill. Okay. There's, yeah, I would like to, I do think, or I'd like to see the Arlington Heights business district be kind of the focus or the main piece of work. But these seem like some reasonable supplemental things. If I could toss out a couple, a few more. Sure. One would be, I think it might have been, to Ms. Ricker, I think it might have been me who wanted more residential-based TDM from the- That came out of the MBTA communities. MBTA communities. Yes. And I think that also ties in with some of the Connect Arlington goals in the plan list. This isn't on the list, but we have a special permit use in the residential districts called renting of up to three rooms, which requires a special permit. It's sort of a relic of our former definition of family that prohibited more than four unrelated persons from living together. But I'd like to have maybe a discussion about eliminating the special permit requirement there because it's not really, it's very difficult to enforce outside of complaint-based enforcement. And there's some fairness issues around that, I think. And in terms of, I did send a zoning bylaw working group memo about zoning for flood resilience. And it was intended to provide sort of, at the time it was written, I believe the goal was to provide sort of like a menu of things to consider. But things such as allowing, changing the definition of building height to allow buildings in flood zones to be elevated, and possibly requirements that basements aren't allowed or a certain amount of freeboard is allowed or required. I think those would be worth talking about, particularly for, I happen to have an interest, I live in a floodplain, along with a portion of East Arlington. So I think this is, I'd rather see us get ahead of the curveball on this. That's all I have. Thank you. Great. Thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson and Rachel Zsembery - 341</summary>

> Gene? I agree with Steve that I think the Arlington Heights Business District should be our main focus for Springtown meeting. And I think we can talk during the retreat about how potentially to make that happen. Yes. I think updating the transportation demand management part of the bylaw to think about residential provisions is important because we mentioned that during the discussions about MBTA communities and the necessity to do that. I think we accomplished a lot this year. And I'm not sure we should go back with a lot again. I think if we can get Arlington Heights done in the Spring, if we can do something with TDM, I think maybe we should leave it at that this time unless people like the ZBA come to us with things that seem to be appropriate for us to do. And the other reason I say that is I think we need to either update the master plan or think about redoing it. And that's a big project. And I'm not sure we should be doing a lot of other zoning changes until we figure out what to do with the master plan. I'm just going to say, I'm going to add that to our board retreat. That's a topic, updating the master plan. So I don't know if we're ready to start a whole process of a new one or if we just want to update the one that's there. I think that we can discuss. But whichever one we do, I think that could spread out throughout 2024. And I think it is more worthwhile than picking up a lot of the individual little things we can do to the zoning bylaw at this point. One question related to that I might have for Claire is whether or not there is an appropriation we would need to request or you would need to request from Town Meeting to fund that type of an exercise. Because that may be the thing instead that we push forward related to that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 102</summary>

> Yes, there would be. I've been in very, very preliminary conversations with Jim Feeney about master planning and an appropriation potentially for Springtown Meeting. When they did the master plan, they put the kickoff in 2012. They initially asked for $100,000 to kick off and then an additional $75,000 in year two. That was master planning from, I think, not much. I don't think there was anything to build on at that point. So at least 10 years ago, it was a $175,000 proposition. I've been trying to lay the groundwork with Mr. Feeney and let him know that this is coming.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 227</summary>

> Great. I mean, I don't disagree that we should move on most of the things. I have a question about a couple of them that are on the board there. But I think they can wait, basically, is what I think. Other than the Arlington Heights Business District and maybe the residential part of the Transportation Demand Management Plan on these pages and pages of zoning recommendations, I mean, some of them have been done. Some of them have been done in different ways. Some of them we decided were not good ideas. Of the one, two, three, four, five, six sort of plans on there, three of them we were involved in and three of them we weren't involved in in any way whatsoever. And I think it's a little harder, at least for me, to get my arms around some of the recommendations made by some of the ones where we had no input. And in some cases, they contradict some of the other plans. So I think the next step on these six is maybe to go through them and figure out what's been done. What do we want to put off? What do we want to wait until we have a revised master plan or whatever? And which ones can we, you know, maybe put off till a year from spring? Spring 2025.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Shana Corman-Houston - 7</summary>

> Okay. Shana? No. Nothing at this time.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 407</summary>

> Okay. Great. I would like to add to... I agree with Gene that I think given the amount of lead-up time, it was a full year for us to get MBTA communities to town meeting. We're going to really need to focus on the Arlington Heights business district over the first four months of the year in order to present that. I agree that I think the TDM with the residential provisions we talked about. I would also add the reduced height buffer area. I think, again, we were fairly close there. We just really needed to come to some alignment around the specific setbacks and some of the other items. We just didn't have the time with everything else going on at the same time to fully vet that with the group. I think a lot of the groundwork there is done. So I would suggest that that might be one that we add to the list for 2024. And I think that pushing some of these rezoning items in terms of what we do with B1, the Walgreens site, the cemeteries, the church properties, you know, those we may want to push to 2025. The other one that I think is a fairly simple, almost an administrative change, is the illuminated signs as an administrative process. They can. We need to take a close look at the zoning bylaw because I've read it as there can be administrative approval of most types of illuminated signs. Let's add that to the list and just make sure. Let's vet that and decide whether or not that even needs to be done. And then we can put that one to bed. Sorry to interrupt. I just forgot to mention, we still have the update of the design guidelines for commercial, which I think we want to get done. And in light of MBTA communities, I wonder if we want to do one for multifamily housing also. And we had an appropriation for that. We just haven't spent it. Right. We need to. I think we should be moving on it. So I think at the retreat I'm going to add that to that as well. The question becomes master plan, commercial design guidelines, multifamily design guidelines. Which order do we put all of those in? Or can we do all three? And can we do all three? Ken, any other thoughts on what we've spoken about to date?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 102</summary>

> No, there's a lot. I think we're going to have to sit down and prioritize. I agree with the rest of the board that I think heights should be a priority. We made promises. And I want to keep those promises. And really look at that as a priority. So one thing that we might want to consider for the retreat is to come to that prepared, having all re-read the Arlington Heights neighborhood action plan and the master plan, which also speaks to that. The sections that speak to that area as well. And we can send those out as attachments.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 52</summary>

> Yeah, we can send a link. We can do that in the agenda. As exhibits. That's a great idea. Are there any other items that people would like to see ahead of the retreat related to the Arlington Heights business district to prepare us for being able to speak to a process?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Kin Lau - 116</summary>

> Aside from the master plan and the Arlington Heights neighborhood action plan, I believe there was a draft set of district definitions or basically a draft main motion for a district. It might have just been dimensional tables, but that would be another thing to review, I think. That was in the package when we had originally started looking at that for spring 2023 town meetings. So yes, we can recirculate that. And do we know the boundaries? Yes, that has been said. So we will also include the map. Ms. Kelly had worked through the map. It has all of the addresses. That's not fixed right now. It was just proposed. Nothing has been fixed.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Board - 458</summary>

> Thank you for the clarification. So we had talked about the Arlington Heights business district, the reduced height buffer area, the illuminated signs, whether or not that's required, and the TDM with residential provisions. Is there anything else, Steve, that you wanted to make sure that we got into this year? I think that's good. Okay. And then, of course, we have the six from the CBA that we'll speak through on the 18th. And then anything else that might come in front of us? I should just mention I went to the or participated in the Clean Energy Future Committee meeting last Friday. And at the end of the meeting we decided that three of us and I was the only one that three of us and I was one of the three would sit down with Mike Champa at some point and go over how the new stretch code will work and those sort of things to see if coming out of that is any changes we want to make to the zoning bylaw to help move along the, you know, zero emissions goal. So I don't know where that's going to go but Talia was going to try to set up that meeting and between Friday and now, as you might have mentioned, it hasn't been set up. So something may come out of that meeting. I just don't know what it might be. Can I ask you a quick question? When you say the new stretch code do you also mean the existing stretch code that I don't think Arlington adopted? Arlington adopted the enhanced one at the town meeting. Last year? Sorry, you're right, spring. But before that it wasn't it was just the regular energy code. So the stretch code is something more has it changed than what it was before?  That's my understanding is we have adopted the enhanced version so it is somewhat and I can tell you what the differences are between them and one of the reasons that we wanted to meet with Mike was to sort of try to figure out what that would be and whether there was any interaction with the zoning by-law we needed to be concerned about. Is there something we learned about that? I don't know. I don't know what it is. So perhaps it's significantly significantly more stringent. But if I could suggest if Gene is going to meet with Mike and review that perhaps we ask Gene to give us a Yes, if that happens I'll be happy to if it happens before the retreat. And that's been adopted by the state already? It was an option for towns to adopt and we adopted it at spring town meeting.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 400</summary>

> Okay. One item that I would like to make sure that we get out in early December Claire we typically put together a schedule for any citizen who is interested in putting forth a Warren article related to the zoning by-law so that they understand the timeline and the process and thereby encouraging them to engage the redevelopment board as early as possible so that we can work together to help them refine their Warren article before they do all of the work of putting it forth and collecting the signatures, etc. Would December 18th be a decent meeting to kick it off? Sure. We have a what might be good to do is to publish again what the timeline is with the materials for that meeting and quite frankly it's really one that we can just we've used it twice now in the past we should be able to just update the dates we may even be able to for the next meeting which is the 4th and that would be by next Thursday if you have time if not we can do it for the 18th there's no real discussion or board action it's just we can exactly and this is when you need to have things to the redevelopment board for review if you'd like to engage us before these are the meetings we have available contact you, Jennifer whoever you are would like them to contact to make sure that they have materials and they can get on the meeting if they want feedback ahead of time. They don't have to, but if they would like to request it, we want to make ourselves available. And I can look for the older copy if you need any help putting your hand up. I'm not sure we can find it. Okay, please do. All right, any other thoughts before I open it up for any public comment on the spring 2024 town meeting articles that we will most likely be pursuing? All right, this time I'd like to open up for public comment. Anyone who has any thoughts on what we've just discussed with regard to the ARB's 2024 spring town meeting board articles, please. If you come here, I will turn my microphone around. He's taking care of it. There you go. You haven't started discussing that chart, right? We finished our discussion. Oh, you're, okay.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Susan Stamps - 190</summary>

> I'm Susan Stamps, 39 Grafton Street. I'm the tree committee representative to the Redevelopment Board. I know some of you may know that we have drafted, we're working with David Morgan on a proposal for a new zoning by-law that regulates parking lots more than it does now and requires trees in parking lots for not only shade and to reduce the heat island effect of parking lots, but also to help with stormwater management and, you know, to have bioswales in parking lots and that sort of thing to not only move the rainwater towards the trees in the parking lot, but also away from the parking lot and distribute it in whatever way seems to make sense. So we are, Green Streets Arlington is working on that and we have promised David Morgan that we'll have something in shape for you to look at at your December 18th meeting as I believe Claire has had some input on that and I appreciate that. Great, thank you for that. Great, thank you so much. We were just discussing the timing and that is absolutely in alignment, so thank you.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Grant Cook - 92</summary>

> Grant Cook, 16 Wollaston. I do agree with you that there's not a lot of energy for the spring, so the heights and parking seem very appropriate, but just watching it, you didn't mention that, and I don't know if you will, but the St. Camilla's property is pending something. I don't know if anything will ever happen to it, but there's been talk that there could be change in that area. I guess the question will be will you be ahead of it or behind it, so this is my point.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 45</summary>

> Thank you. Great question, thank you. If I could, Claire, I don't know, I know that that's something we've spoken about as a board, so Claire, I don't know if you have any updates on St. Camilla's property that you're able to share with us.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 326</summary>

> Yeah, so the update I have on St. Camilla's property is it's out for the park behind the Poets Corner Park. It's roughly six acres that's owned by, currently owned by the Archdiocese of Boston. They have RFP'd that property. I have fielded many, many calls from developers looking for information for it and have, you know, distributed whatever public information we have on the site. The Archdiocese has put it out with a preference for housing. The property is currently zoned R1, R0 even, so right now, under the zoning that exists, you could do six or seven single-family homes for a 40B project, and that seems to be the general consensus is that it will likely be a 40B project, whether it's a friendly 40B or the town decide to, you know, claim St. Harbor, I don't know, but at this stage, that's what it's looking like. I have asked about rezoning. There is little appetite for rezoning right now because 40B, you know, is a possibility. I think if that is, you know, ceases to become a possibility because we've achieved St. Harbor or for other reasons, we would definitely be looking to rezone. I have had several conversations with folks who have asked, you know, what would the town like to see on the site, and I've, you know, made it pretty clear there's not a lot down there. You know, if you were to put in however many units of housing were proposed, you know, what about some retail space? What about some community space? What about, you know, some sort of stewardship over the park? And so this is, these are the ideas that are, you know, currently being floated around. The RFP is due to close soon. I want to say in January. I would have to check on that, but they're looking to make an award by early spring, near February, so that's where we are on that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 12</summary>

> Thank you, Claire. Any other questions or discussion from the board? Gene?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Eugene Benson - 124</summary>

> A couple of things I forgot. I thought that the Affordable Housing Trust Fund Committee is going to bring an affordable housing overlay to us sometime, so I think that will be the other big thing, potentially, that we will be looking at and potentially going to the town meeting in the spring, and I think the sooner they can get to us, the better, and what I had heard through the grapevine was they're not sure what they're going to present. That's a good time to come and see us, when they're not sure what they're going to present, as opposed to they had their final proposal. So, yeah, that was one of the other things that I wanted to mention about that.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery and Eugene Benson - 198</summary>

> Thank you. I had fallen off my ringer. I appreciate you bringing that one back up. Anything else?  They are meeting on November 30th. I will put that on their agenda to get an update on the affordable housing overlay and let them know that they should bring it to the ARP soon, or the ARB, excuse me, sooner rather than later. And if I can respond to what Susan said, it's good you're coming on the 18th. I just wonder whether something that says trees and parking lots even belongs in the zoning bylaw, or it just belongs in the town's general bylaws having to do with private property. So, it's worth, I mean, coming sort of here, but I think it's worth thinking about where would it best be, you know, zoning bylaw or non-zoning bylaw. And you and I had this conversation a while ago. I'm not sure what's better, trees or canopy with solar roof. So, I think it's worth having that conversation also. For both. Yes. Great. Any other comments? Great, good discussion. So, if there's nothing else on the zoning amendments preliminary discussion, we will close agenda item number three and
</details></details>
<details><summary>Open Forum</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 33</summary>

> move to agenda item number four, open forum. Anything else you would like to share? Welcome to the committee. We are thrilled to have five members, and especially to have Shana with us.
</details></details>
<details><summary>New Business and Adjourn</summary> 
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 17</summary>

> Great. Well, if there is nothing else, we'll close open forum and move to new business. Claire?
</details>
<details><summary>	 Claire Ricker - 294</summary>

> Sure. So, I have a couple of updates. One is... They've all flown out of my head. One is that I am looking to make an offer to an assistant director by early next week. I've had some great interviews over the past week or so, and, you know, there's no bad choices here, and so that'll be great. The planning department will then be up at full staff for the first time in two years, is what I've heard. So, I have that going on. The second thing is that the submission to the attorney general and the submission to the OHLC for MBTA committees were completed as of last week. Everything is in and is under review. So, they went in with a notice from me letting them know that we would appreciate some urgent attention to both items, given our... the town's desire to participate in the fossil fuel ban pilot. The state is well aware of what we're trying to do, as is the Attorney General's office, but I did, you know, obviously alert them to that again. I think that is it for new business right now. I did say earlier, the Atwood House, I'm meeting with the developer and Bob and Niece tomorrow to talk about a potential project at the Atwood House that I will, you know, share with this board, obviously, at the retreat and, you know, potentially at the December 4th meeting when they're ready to come in. But there has been some movement on that project as well. I know that one's been really, really at the top of the board's mind, so there has been some movement. I am talking with the folks and we should have an update for you very soon.
</details>
<details><summary>	 Rachel Zsembery - 57</summary>

> Thank you. Any other items of new business? All right. So, with that, we will close agenda item number five and see if there is a motion to adjourn. So, motion. Second. Take a vote, starting with Steve. Yes. Gene. Yes. Dana. Yes. Kim. Yes. And Niece as well. The meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.
</details></details>