### Town of Arlington Redevelopment Board Meeting [Agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=2009&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda) [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RQ9MKQd-CWM) February 26, 2024 7:30 PM

<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17453&MeetingID=2009 "</a> 1. Review Meeting Minutes</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 291</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;      * 7:30pm The Board will review and vote to approve meeting minutes.  Good evening, everyone. Welcome to the Town of Arlington Redevelopment Board. This is the meeting on February 26, 2024, and I'd like to call to order. My name is Rachel Zemberry. I'm the chair of the board, and if the other members of the board could please introduce themselves, I'd appreciate it. Steve Rabelak, good evening. Shayna Corman-Huston. Ken Lowe. We also have Claire Ricker joining us from the Department of Planning and Community Development. So this evening we do have one member of the Redevelopment Board who is absent, so we will proceed with the four members of the board in attendance this evening. Let's move to the first agenda item, which is a review of the meeting minutes. These are the meeting minutes from February 5, 2024, and I'll see if there are any revisions or corrections, starting with Ken. I have none. Great. Shayna? I have none. Steve? I have none. Great. Let's see. I just had one correction, and it's in the second page, the first paragraph, where it says, she noted that issues such as signage, maintenance of building facades, et cetera, where it says, but those issues are not often priorities for ISD. I clarified that that was due to staffing constraints. So if we could just add that, that would be great. And that's the only change I had. With that, is there a motion to approve the meeting minutes as amended? So motioned. Is there a second? Second. And we'll take a vote, starting with Steve. Yes. Shayna? Yes. Ken? Yes. And I'm a yes as well. Meeting minutes have been approved as amended.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17454&MeetingID=2009"</a>2. Public Hearing: Warrant Articles for 2024 Annual Town Meeting</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 162</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;      * 7:35 pm The Board will hear the proposed zoning amendments. The public hearing will include time both for public comment and for deliberation and discussion by the Board.      Great. Let's move to the second agenda item, which is the public hearing for the Warren Articles for 2024 Annual Town Meeting. As we open the hearing, this will be the first night of hearings in the schedule as posted for the Warren Articles for Spring 2024 Town Meeting. Consistent with the past, the ARB will be hearing from article applicants and the public wishing to speak on each of the articles as scheduled. Applicants will have three minutes to address the board. The board will then pose any questions to the applicants, followed by a period of open public comment. Note that the board will reserve final discussion and voting on each article until the last night of hearings. Let's see.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>ARTICLE 25 ZONING BYLAW AMENDMENT / BUILDING DEFINITIONS</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 46</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    * To see if the Town will vote to amend Section 2: Definitions, in the Zoning Bylaw to amend the definitions of Building, Attached, and Building, Detached, to clear up an ambiguity between those two definitions; or take any action related thereto.</blockquote>

So let's go ahead and start with article 25, which is the zoning bylaw amendment related to building definitions. And Claire, for each one of these, I think what I'd like to do is turn it over to you for introduction, any words that you'd like to say, and then we'll open it up to the board for any initial discussion. And again, we'll save deliberation for the last night of our meeting.
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 152</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Thank you. So tonight we'll be looking at articles 25 through 29. These are articles that the ARB has agreed to take up as promoting at town meeting, which it seems like we just had. Circling back around here. The first three articles, 25, 26, 27, are administrative in nature. Article 28 is to delete the inland wetlands overlay district. And then article 29 is the reduced type buffer. And I believe that the board had some discussion, or at least had an alternate draft for article 29, Mr. Revelak provided. If we could start with articles 25, 26, 27, I can't imagine that we'll need too much time for that. Of course, and also have time for public comment. I can tell you article 28, I attended a meeting with the conservation commission last week, and they did vote to support article 28 as written. And I think that's it.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 109</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Great. Great. Thank you. So let's go ahead and start with article 25 to see if there's any question or any discussion from the members of the redevelopment board. And we'll start with you, Ken. I have none. Great. Shana? I have none. Steve? Nothing on article 25. Great. At this time, we will open the floor for public comment for article 25. Any member of the public wishing to speak, please indicate so by raising your hand. Seeing none, we will close public comment on article 25. Any final discussion from members of the board before we move to the next article? None. Shana? No. Steve? No.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>ARTICLE 26 ZONING BYLAW AMENDMENT / ADMINISTRATIVE CLARIFICATION</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 43</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    * To see if the Town will vote to amend Section 5.4.2.A. R District Yard and Open Space Requirements in the Zoning Bylaw to reference an exception found elsewhere in the Zoning Bylaw; or take any action related thereto.</blockquote>

Seeing none, let's move to article 26. Article 26 is a bylaw amendment related to an administrative clarification, and I will open it up to the board for any initial questions or comments, starting with Ken. I have none. Shana? I have none. Steve? Nothing here. Great. Seeing none, we will open it up for public comment. Any member of the public wishing to speak regarding article 26, please raise your hand. Chris Loretti, if you could come to the front, please, so that the microphone can pick you up.
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Christopher Loreti - 7</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thank you, Chris Loretti. 56 Adams Street.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 16</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just a reminder for anyone speaking this evening that you will have up to three minutes.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Chris Loreti - 214</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sure. Thank you. Just a couple of administrative things. First, the second item referred to here is 5.9.2B1E, but there is no E in the bylaw right now. All there is after B1 is a series of bullets, so I don't think you can reference the E, because that's actually another change that you're proposing in the bylaw that has not yet been enacted. So, I think it would be E if the other bylaw change is passed and approved, but as of right now, there is no E. And I would say for the other one, for 5.4.2B, I would suggest you go to the same level of specificity as you do for 5.9.2. So, for example, if you're going 1E, or 1, whatever bullet it is, it's the fifth bullet, for 5.4.2, I think you should do the same thing before you give the letter designation in the bullet, the specific bullet, the bullet underneath that letter as well. Because there are a lot of different items listed under 5.4.2, and a lot of them are completely irrelevant to this particular change. So, anyway, I don't have any substantive disagreement with it, but in terms of clarification, I think I would look into that and hopefully suggest the change in that way.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 39</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Thank you very much. Any other members wishing to speak this evening? Okay. At this time, we'll close public comment, and I'll turn it back to the members of the board for any final discussion, starting with Ken.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kin Lau and Chris Loreti - 122</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I thought what Chris brought up, we were doing that. We were taking out the bullet to put in letters in its place as part of- That's Article 27. Okay. So, it's just out of order, but we are doing 20. So, we are doing that, Chris. I know, but you can't propose a change to something that doesn't exist. You're proposing the change to what exists now, is what I'm saying. So, what we can do is we can speak with the moderator about the order of these, and about Table 1 and the town meeting agrees to that, doing the other one first, so that then you are making the change to the other. I think it's a scrivener's right.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 22</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. Any other comments, Shana? Great. Steve. All right. At this time, we will close discussion for this evening on Article 26,</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>ARTICLE 27 ZONING BYLAW AMENDMENT / ADMINISTRATIVE CORRECTION</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 104</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    * To see if the Town will vote to amend Section 5.9.2. Accessory Dwelling Units for clarity to change how subsections are numbered and to remove a subsection that is outdated; or take any action related thereto.    and we'll now move to Article 27, which is an administrative amendment related to the re-designation of the list of requirements in Section 5.9.2B1. Ken, any discussion? No. Shana? No. Steve? No. I will now open it up for public comment. Any members of the public wishing to speak on this article? Great. We'll close public comment on Article 27.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>ARTICLE 28 ZONING BYLAW AMENDMENT / DELETE INLAND WETLAND OVERLAY DISTRICT</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 528</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    * To see if the Town will vote to delete Section 5.8, Inland Wetland Overlay District, from the Zoning Bylaw and adjust the numbering of subsequent sections; or take any action related thereto.    And we will now move to Article 28, which is a Zoning By-law amendment related to deleting the Inland West Wetland Overlay District. Start with Ken. Any discussion? No. Shana? No. Steve? No. I will now open it up for public comment. Any discussion on Article 28, the deletion of the Inland Wetland District section? Thank you, Ken. I'm Chris Lorty, Adam Street. I guess, you know, as a town meeting member, I would like to understand the relationship of the current Zoning By-law that you're proposing to eliminate with the Conservation Commission regulations, because it's not clear to me that the Zoning By-law doesn't go beyond what the current, you know, what the protection regulations are that the Conservation Commission enforces. And if indeed this is going to weaken the protections for the town's wetlands, then I would have some real problems with it. I don't know whether it does or not, but I would hope that, you know, prior to town meeting, your board can make clear exactly what the implications are of this change. So I'll just leave it at that. Great. Thank you very much. Any other discussion on this item from the public? Okay. With that, we'll close public comment for Article 28. And Claire, I will turn it over to you for the record to address that comment. As I understand it, again, this was proposed by the Conservation Committee, whose current policies actually are more stringent in many ways than what's currently in our bylaws. So if you could just speak a little bit to that, that would be great. Sure, absolutely. So this was a change that was recommended by David Morgan, who's our environmental planner and conservation agent, as well as staff to the Conservation Commission. And he is arguing, and DPCD is arguing at least, that the Conservation Commission possesses a robust authority to protect wetlands via public hearing permit review acquisition. The Inland Wetland District is redundant, and the overlay creates unnecessary complexity and potential for conflicting regulations. The Inspectional Services Department, the ZBA, DPCD, and the Conservation Commission are all in support of removing this district, as it does tend to muddy the waters a little bit in terms of who has the authority to adjudicate. In terms of the Inland Wetland District, it turns, when we get down to it, it's the building commissioner who's responsible for determining, you know, the impact of the district and not the Conservation Commission. And so rather than duplicate those efforts, there was at least some agreement internally that the thing to do is to eliminate the district so that the Conservation Commission can then establish any authority they need to over whatever parcels are implicated. Great, thank you for the clarification. Any other discussion from the board members, starting with Ken? None. Shana? None. Steve? None. Great, so that will close our discussion this evening on Article 28.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>ARTICLE 29 ZONING BYLAW AMENDMENT / REDUCED HEIGHT BUFFER</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 75</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    * To see if the Town will vote to amend Section 5.3.19. Reduced Height Buffer Area in the Zoning Bylaw to alter the height buffer requirements; or take any action related thereto.  We'll now move to Article 29, the Zoning By-law Amendment related to reduced height buffer. And I believe that there is some alternate language proposed by Steve Revlak. So Steve, I will turn it over to you first.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 402</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. In terms of the alternate language, I'd like to address it in two parts. One is the changes to the paragraph in 5.3.19a, and the second is changes to the table below. In terms of the paragraph itself, I liked what the staff recommendation, but my goal was to simply try to make it read a little easier. And that's without really changing the substance. So it's more about just wordsmithing than anything else. Now, in terms of the buffered distances, we had some conversations in the past as a board about what appropriate distances were. And I'm basically suggesting to reduce them by 50 percent. And the rationale behind that goes like this. 5.3.19a was added to our by-law in 1975. It was numbered differently, but the substance of it, and I think actually the language is the same, but the buffer distances were also the same. So 200 feet, 150 feet, 100 feet. Now, at the time, the by-law allowed greater building heights. So the R7 district and B5 allowed 110 feet, and the PUD district allowed 200. Now, each of those districts were down-zoned in subsequent years. So in 1978, R7 was down-zoned from the maximum height of 110 feet to a maximum height of 60 feet. The planned unit development district was down-zoned in 1982, and the maximum height reduced going from 200 feet to 80 feet. And the B5 district was down-zoned in 1987, the maximum height going from 110 feet to 75 feet. Now, I tried to research all of the articles and sort of like the history behind these three events to see if there was discussion of adjusting the buffer zones, and I was not able to find any. Now, given that the, you know, the change, the reductions in these districts are between 32 and 60 percent, I'm suggesting a 50 percent reduction to a, you know, make it around number four, and b, to get the buffer distances more in line with what they were between 1975 and 1987. So basically, through successive changes, we introduced an internal consistency, and I think we're changing the buffers to, you know, account for, you know, the, these, the, these three, you know, three down zonings in 1978, 82, and 87 would sort of like bring it back to what it was originally intended to be. Thank you.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kin Lau - 72</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thank you. Ken, we will start with you for discussion on the, both the proposed language as well as Steve's proposed modifications. I'm in agreement with Steve's modifications. I think this adjusts, because the heights have been adjusted, I think the buffer zone should be adjusted in the same, in, make it more equitable so that it still follows same spirit of what was originally done. So I am fine with this.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Shaina Korman-Houston - 100</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Shana. I am also in agreement with Steve's adjustments. I appreciate the history, Steve, of, of where the height adjustments came from, and I think, I think your proposed adjustment to our buffer zone height adjustments is sensible in light of the history. I am definitely in favor of the first section. I think that, you know, the, the wording change certainly makes it clearer and simpler to, to understand. Can you talk through again, I, I hear what you're saying with regard to the relative adjustment. Do you have concerns with the greater adjustment that was initially planned?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 199</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Well, the, one of the, going back to our discussions, you know, the, the, what was originally planned was proposed by a staff member who unfortunately works for the town. No longer works for the town. No longer works for the town. I think I'd like staffs better, but I find I, I can, I actually like staffs better, but I can offer a stronger adjustment to the agent. More of a rationalization for the other. I would ask, if you don't mind, Claire, if I could ask your opinion with regard to any examples you may have seen, or perhaps that's something we could pull with regard to other towns or other communities that may have this type of provision and what, what we are currently seeing as a, as a range that might help guide our discussion for our, our next evening. Because I appreciate the rationalization, but I also know that the initial recommendation came from some research. Unfortunately, I just went back to the initial memo, which was prepared, and I, I don't see that particular item called out in greater, greater detail. So I think it would be helpful to just understand the context.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 39</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Any other comments before we open it up for public comment? Great. So at this time, any member of the public wishing to speak regarding Article 29, if you could please raise your hand. Please. Thanks for starting again.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 277</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I guess a few comments on this. First, I guess I wonder whether the change is even necessary. The bylaw already allows you the flexibility to waive the lower height requirement upon making a finding that the higher height, the bigger height is not detrimental. And in addition, you know, a former town council has rendered the opinion that the redundant court can just ignore the zoning bylaw and a lot of violations if it wants to, because you're so special as a redundant court. Now, I certainly don't agree with that opinion, as you know, but presumably you do, because that opinion is still posted on your webpage. So if you actually believe that. and there's really no need for this change at all. But I'm seriously appreciative of Mr. Rivelak's history. I would also note, though, that this section of the bylaw has subsequently been amended since 1975. And presumably, Tom Meading in the planning board at the time was aware of those reduced heights since that Mr. Rivelak was referring to. I would say that if you're going to change the bylaw as it was originally proposed, you might as well just get rid of it completely, because these instances are so small. Effectively, they provide no protection whatsoever. So my preference is that you leave it as is and don't do anything. If you aren't willing to change it, I would do it as Mr. Rivelak has proposed. And to be honest, I'm not sure there's actually that much difference if you looked at how the zoning works, where you have these types of parcels close to residential areas in lower-numbered districts. Thanks.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 78</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Thank you very much. Any other members of the public wishing to speak on Article 29? Great. With that, we'll close public comment for Article 29. And I will just note that this is part of a group of bylaw modifications that the Redevelopment Board has taken on to make the process more predictive in terms of the way that we have been interpreting the bylaw. Any other comments related to that topic or this article? Kim?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kin Lau - 51</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No, I think you hit head on the nail on the head. I know, Jim. Making it simpler and easier to go through these bylaws for a developer or a homeowner is the plan that we tried to do, and I think this does that. Janet, anything else? Anything else? Steve?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 19</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I agree with you. Over time, I would like to see the process become less discretionary and more predictable.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 237</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Fantastic. So let's see. Back to my agenda here. So that concludes tonight's items that we have on the public hearing for the Warren Articles for 2024 Annual Town Meeting. We do have several more nights of hearings ahead of us, including deliberation and voting from the Redevelopment Board on these Warren Articles on the last night of our hearings. What I would like to see is if there is a motion to continue the open public hearing to the next scheduled date, which is this next week to March 4th. Is there a motion? So motioned. Is there a second? Second. I will take a vote, starting with Ken. Yes. Shana? Yes. Steve? Yes. I am a yes as well. So we will continue the open public hearing for the Warren Articles for Springtown meeting to Monday, March 4th. There are more zoning articles, aren't there? There are. And that's what we will hear at the meeting on the 4th. So they will come up. They will come up, exactly. All of the rest of them? All, but yes. I think all of the rest of them are scheduled for the 4th. Thank you. Yes. And then the meeting after that is when we will need to deliberate and vote on the 18th. Thank you for the clarification on the schedule. Great. So thank you, everyone, for participating this evening in the open public hearing.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17455&MeetingID=2009"</a>3. Site Plan Review Application Draft</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 51</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;* 9:05pm The Board will discuss the proposed draft Site Plan Review application.  The next item on our agenda is the site plan review application and draft. And Claire, I will turn this over to you. I know that you and Jean have been working on this draft for review.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 154</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great, thank you. So Jean and I have been working on this application for site plan review. This is the third item to talk about with our proposed changes to the rules and regulations for the board. We've already discussed adding site plan review to your rules and regulations, making some slight changes to the signed rules, allowing for a little more administrative approval or some latitude for the department to make those approvals. And then this is the third item, which is the application for site plan review. It's based pretty much on the EDR application, as we already have it. Jean has made some changes to provide a little more clarity and to really underline that this is a by right process. But that site plan review is still likely required for most projects that we'll see under MBTA communities. And we provided this draft for us to comment on this evening.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 66</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great, thank you very much. Let's see, so let us start. I have a couple of comments. I'm sure the rest of you do as well. So perhaps what we could do is, Ken, if we would like to start with you for any comments you might have about the general structure and any specific modifications within the text that you might want to chat about.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kin Lau - 64</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I think this is a pretty good checklist. Good job, thank you. Thank you, Jean, too. Hopefully he's listening in. The only comment I have is near the end, where it says SketchUp compatible model if required. That, to me, is a little vague, because it doesn't define what's required. Is the SketchUp model required, or what are the requirements for a SketchUp model?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 95</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So I think I just want to expand on that a little bit. And maybe Jean can voice that a little better. But I was thinking of maybe saying, if a SketchUp model is required to explain or demonstrate the project, if one is used, then that model should be submitted to us. If the project is small enough and it doesn't require one, then I'm not going to ask them for a SketchUp model. Is that, do you think that's, I was going to talk to the board about that, see what they think.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 205</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sure, let's take up that item. I mean, I think the other question I would have for the board is, do we think we would require one for, and I'll use the MBTA community's overlay, the multifamily overlay district as an example. Are we looking to model as a town, just originally we talked about the commercial corridors, so Broadway and Mass Ave. Would we require one or not? Would we want to specify that for the neighborhood sub-districts, for example? Those are the kinds of questions I have. Although, again, to Ken's point, perhaps if we identify, if a model is used, again, part of me isn't crazy about that language because they use so many different visualization tools that can all be exported to SketchUp, so we kind of have to be careful about how we talked about visualization. I'm not sure how to wordsmith that. But I agree that if required should be defined further. So if we come up with something like that, are we off that topic? Well, did you want to discuss it, go through that topic, and then we'll go to your next one? Yes, I have one more, that's it. OK, perfect. Sheena, thoughts on that topic?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Shaina Korman-Houston - 73</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Well, I'm actually curious, to the two architects on the board, if there's a threshold reference, or if there's a type of project that, in your mind, becomes really useful to see the model. I feel like there are projects at the polls where it's kind of clear what is useful and necessary and what is not so necessary. But is there, in your mind, a place where you would draw a line?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 53</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Well, I'll give you some extremes. If it's an existing building that they're used to reconfiguring to add more units in there, I really don't think that's required. But if there's a larger building and massing, you want to see what that scale is. And this will lead to my second comment later.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Shaina Korman-Houston - 132</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Excuse me, thank you. But I think it's going to be up to, I mean, it's so subjective that for us to say, here's the great point, I think we have to say that if a model is required to explain the project, then that model should be given to us. So we put it into the database. If what's not required, then we're not going to ask them to make that. That's what I was trying to elaborate on, if required. Because who's going to say what's required? So I don't know how exactly wordsmithing. Well, I think that's what I'm getting at, is who's going to say what's required? I don't know. I made a note, SketchUp compatible model, if available, or a question, where do we want it required?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 169</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maybe the model is required for Mass Ave and Broadway. We would think those presentations and folks who come in with projects on those two streets often have models available. We could also put it as part of the pre-application review, and just ask the question, do you plan on submitting or making a 3D model? In which case, could we have the file? If you present one. If we present one, we get it. So maybe the conversation about the SketchUp model happens in the pre-application review, with staff that we talked about earlier. I think that's a great idea, because it sets the expectation that they're handing it over, as opposed to at the end, which is currently where that discussion happens. That we then request it at the end, and it's harder to ensure that we typically receive that file. We can put it on the checklist of materials that we would look at in a pre-application review. There you go. I'm OK with that. Steve?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 160</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I have nothing on the top. It's Mr. Lowell's grades. I do have small changes. OK, great. You had a second one. Yes. The drawings of a pole structure, a little further up. I think the next page up, 30 of 36. Here's a bullet point there, where it says elevation of each exterior facade of each building. I want to say that the elevations of the building should include the surrounding buildings. So you're not just showing your building, but you're showing the building next door to it, adjacent to it, behind it. So you see it in context. I'm not asking them to draw the whole thing out, but enough so that you can use that to base the scale and proportions of what you put in there. Because otherwise, unless you know that thing intimately, it forces us to go look in Google and walk through sites and everything else for that. Did I miss that somewhere?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 51</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bullet item number four, where it says, drawings from one or more prominent public vantage point illustrating how the proposed project will appear within the context of its surroundings. Does that address your comment, or are you specifically looking for it in elevation? Specifically one in elevation. Specifically one in elevation.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 293</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;OK, that's fair. You can play many tricks in what point of view you're selecting and how it is. When you actually see the true elevation, how they line up or don't line up, that's when it's the road. So I see what you are saying specifically would be immediately adjacent properties. However, I think we would need to ensure that they would have access to being able to pull the specific height information. Again, if we're asking them to show that in elevation, part of the reason why they show it, they make certain assumptions in the modeling tools. Some of that would be public data, and they certainly could pull that. But that's just one item I wanted to bring up. That could be harder information to accurately portray, unless we are fine with it being a close estimate. I'm not going to ask them to show every single cornice or every single brick line or anything else. But if you show that the building setbacks here, there's a porch here, or that kind of massing, a lot of elevations come up near their building. And this would show the building next door. I just want to make sure that we are actually looking at adjacent buildings, where this building fits in, so it's not, you know. And knowing that an adjacent building has a bunch of windows in it, or no windows in it, or something like that, it would influence how you look at how it fits into the neighborhood. I don't care if it's four inches off, or eight inches this way. It's getting a feel for what's next to it, I think, which any good architect would do anyways, just look at the buildings next to it.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 23</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Any other questions? Well, those were my two things. Those were your two things? Yeah. All right. Thank you very much. Gina?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Eugene Benson - 353</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So just a few things. On the first page, in the first bullet point, the definitions of site plan review, and as a grade, so if you search, if you go into the document, into the zoning byline, search site plan review, as of right, nothing comes up. And I know it sounds silly, right? One should know what does as of right mean. But if you have a small developer doing four units, or something, I wonder if there's somewhere we could point them to, somewhere that already exists that we could throw in a link. Because it does refer to section two, but it's not actually in section two. Would a definition just help? Yeah, a definition would help. Just put the definition of what as of right means? Or even just say to them, this is just site plan review. We're not talking about some special definition for the Arlington Zoning Bylaw. This is just site plan, little footnote. This is a term of art, not Arlington Zoning Bylaw, special definition. And then they can go and go over this. Almost everything else in here, if you search in the zoning bylaw, you'll find it in the zoning bylaw. I think an inexperienced developer might get stuck trying to find site plan review in the bylaw. Of course, it's not there. So there was that. There were just tiny things, a few places, where it says, let's see, number seven, four day, the number seven item two application to be provided four days before the public hearing, calendar or business days, pops up a couple of other places, the appeal period, number eight, the appeal period runs business days. Oh, on the checklist, under residential and commercial units, describe number, location, size of residential units and affordable units, if any, so that we don't run into some of the trouble we had with the previous developers. We want to clarify that affordable units need to meet standards for inclusion on SHI. We can go find out what that is on the road. And I think that was all I have.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 104</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Thank you. Steve. I'd actually like to have a small follow-up on Ms. Borman-Huston's comments, and then I'll close your mind. So regarding kudos for searching the definitions, I just checked section references. I did as well, and that was the only one that didn't pop up. Yeah, of course it did. But the, well the, I believe that the order we passed to institute multi-family zoning for Section 3A had definitions in it. And they just haven't been incorporated with the bylaw. But I mean I take, but your point is very well taken. Because we're still waiting for that approval from.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 155</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yeah if it's not in the, if it's not in what town meeting adopted, you know a little explainer, that would be it. My only, overall I thought, I thought this was a very nice sort of like guided process. And I really appreciate that. One small little thing in the first page, the second paragraph, for more information about site plan review and other zoning requirements, refer to the Arlington Zoning Bylaw and the rules and regulations of the Arlington Redevelopment Board. The hyperlink's a little messed up. So it's, I'd consider breaking it up into two, Arlington Zoning Bylaw as a link to the zoning bylaw, and rules and regulations to the other one. I know that that makes two links to the zoning bylaw on the first page, but I don't think the redundancy will be a problem. And finally, kudos for including the mention of the bicycle parking bylaws. Thank you.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 171</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great, thank you. I had a couple of items. One just a formatting item. The third paragraph on the first page, the ending should be a period and not a comma. Let's see, on page two, number five, where it talks here, the last sentence on five starts for larger projects. DPCD may also schedule a meeting. Do we want to define larger projects? I think that is, that's a, again, a question for the board. I would be happy, I think we probably should, unless we are going to just say for projects on Mass Avenue Broadway. Right. Since those will be the larger projects. So that's a board thing. That was a question I had. It could be with regard to size, number of units. It could be for projects within the commercial corridor, because right now those are the projects or the areas in town where those larger projects are permitted. We don't have to solve that tonight, but it's a discussion I thought we should have. Steve.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 40</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Well, I'd like to ask Ms. Rueger, in terms of when you get together, like the fire department and health and human services and the police department to all look at an application, how big does it have to be?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 15</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I mean, generally it's, I think we're talking about things that are probably 20 units.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak and Claire Ricker - 166</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Please. Can we just make it part of the determination from the pre-application meeting with the planning department saying that at your pre-application meeting.The DBCD will determine whether or not we need to. It's mandatory to go to the pre-meeting no matter what. Correct. And then it can be determined and discussed and then, you know, then you explain why it's falling under the big one or not falling under one and you have a little more leeway, you know, where it's not that way. Yeah, just a point of clarification. It is not, the pre-meeting is not required for everything for those projects with four units or under. It is not required, but those wouldn't fall under this anyway. I just want to make sure we can clarify that for those listening. Yes. Okay, great. So I think that makes a lot of sense that at the pre-meeting, the department of community development will determine whether a town development review team meeting is required. Perfect.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 49</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Just administratively, I, under number two, I wanted, Claire, do you want them to go all through you? Is this the best way for this to happen or is there a more administrative intake process that you might want to think about? It's just a question for you.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 12</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No, I appreciate that. It likely is. I will talk with staff.</blockquote>

Okay, great. I have no opinion one way or the other on that. I just wanted to make sure you're not overwhelmed. Can I change that a little bit? Please. At least talk about it. I always think maybe we just still call it the director, the director of the department but not give you a name because this is going to be here for a while. That's true. We hope you are too. You are too, but I'm not trying to put you out here. Not close to that. Okay, but if we just said the director of the department and then say the phone number can be found on the website and then we can send the email and this way here. There's nothing really personal to you. Yes. It's the position you hold and then you can just determine. Again, or whomever or if it's contact the department and there's a more general number that you want to use. Because you need to put your home number there, you know. Okay, number seven. We explain how they are going to present their proposal to the ARB. So the first item where it talks about the staff memo to the ARB. Do we need to define what that is or do we feel that that's clear that they are going to write a memo based on their pre-meeting, etc. I'm just trying to think this through with somebody who's using this document. We know what that means because we sit here and we receive them. That was a question I had for the board. Do we think that needs to be further defined? I think if we just add something in there. I think we've written a good point. I think if the memo, the purpose of the memo is to say that it falls under all the memos will state that it meets all the requirements. It doesn't, there's no ask for forgiveness because when that because they can't. If they have to ask for any relief then it's not a special permit. It's a special permit. It's not as a right. So all that memo says is it meets all the requirements and that's what this memo would be about if we had something like that there. Would that clarify it? That's fine with me. Again, I think it would be just clearer to the applicants if they understood what that was. If someone was looking at the project this is the staff will create a memo saying it meets all the requirements and that's what you guys would do at the pre-meeting. Or you know summarizing the pre-meeting findings or something like that.
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 545</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay, let's see. The next item I had was item number four where we where it specifies. So in item number two we do not specify how much time the applicant will have to present at the meeting which I think is fine because depending on the size of the project we sometimes get the 10 minutes sometimes 15. I would like to take that same approach with number four and not identify how much time each person will have under public comment because again depending on how many people come out and what is on the agenda sometimes we allow two minutes sometimes we allow three minutes. So I think perhaps if we identify attendees will receive an allotment of time to each speak about your application or will have the opportunity to each speak about your application without identifying the time that would maintain some of the flexibility that we've needed to use in the past. And number five where it says the ARB will deliberate on the request an open session. I think we mean the application. In section number eight the second line I think the word will is missing after DPC staff will file with the town clerk. Okay the next item or the next page the required submittals checklist. So we're saying that this is the submittal checklist but then we also at the very beginning tell them to go to the website for the full list of required submittals. Is that different than what's on this list? I don't believe so but it's worth either eliminating or checking. Yes if we could that would be great. You agree to eliminate it. Yeah so that it's just here's what you need. Okay the next I'm sorry I went deep on this. I read a lot of policies at work so I'm in that mode today. The impact statement we include the requirement for a lead checklist here and then also somewhere else where was that where was that on the next page under sustainable building and site design elements it also requires a lead checklist and narrative for EDR criteria. Now I personally like to have an item live only in one place so I think we should decide and I think I'd leave that up to you and the department based on where you think it will be most visible and likely to be likely to be adhered to because this is something that we sometimes have an issue with them actually producing. So whether it lives in the under impact statement or under sustainable building and site design elements I personally feel it should just look in one place. Okay okay let's talk about the sketch up model. One item we don't have in here that I think to me as a board member would be helpful is if they are going to if they are going to pursue any bonus provision under the MBTA communities guidelines the multi-family guidelines I think I would want them to state which provision and provide the relative documentation for that bonus provision. So I don't know if any of you have any other members of the board have any thoughts on that. Steve unless that I missed where that is.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Stephen Revilak - 246</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Well on the on the actual after the actual applications so this would be page seven item number six list any waivers or bonuses being requested. Thank you okay that addresses it. You can ignore that for me and then my last item was on the dimensional and parking information. So all of the footnotes here refer back to the underlying zoning however we are specifically creating this process for the for the MBTA communities the overlay district which in which case many of the minimum requirements are not are specifically are specifically non-applicable per the section we just provided. So that includes minimum lot size frontage floor area ratio, percentage of lot coverage, lot area per dwelling unit and the open space requirements. So I'm wondering whether or not we need to rethink some of the footnotes or provide a general footnote under the where it says min or max required by zoning for proposed use of the top of that column if perhaps there is a footnote there that speaks to the elimination of those requirements by that section of the zoning code. So I wanted to get the board's feedback on on that thought. Steve? Yeah I could I could see where something would get tripped up like for for example I'm quite certain that nothing in the in the MBTA see overlay places a restriction on lot area dwelling unit but we use it all over the place elsewhere in the bylaw.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Various - 1384</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Correct. And so yeah I think calling out requirements in for you know since this is predominantly for multi-family housing I think calling out requirements in section 594 first. Yeah I looked it up earlier I don't remember off the top of my head. Yeah but but in the in the MBTA in the multi-family zone and then sort of falling back and then list the you know non-MBTA section separately. So you're. Well second. So you're suggesting in the existing footnotes to list the MBTA communities provision first and then or the underlying zoning the the other or to create a general footnote where these are not applicable. Yeah I I guess part of it might be you know some of these might be useful to know for context like for example the you know the first footnote it talks about FAR and I believe we don't have FAR restrictions. Correct the first five we do not have restrictions. Right but it might I don't know if if having that piece of information might be useful for board members. Although if there are I don't know if the to the extent where something is not regulated maybe there's not a mess maybe it's not we don't need to have the applicant fill out a form. Yeah right I mean that's really the question right you could approach it a couple different ways you could add another column that identifies which you know that has the heading of you know MBTA communities overlay district where these are non-applicable so that it's clear if you wanted them to fill them out anyway you know in a in a sense but at the same time again our whole point is trying to make this easier for them so would we want to go have them go through that exercise or not? And Jane I'd be interested in your opinion on that. If we're not if we're not going to use the information to assess the project why are we asking? Right and that's kind of that was kind of my thought for whether it belongs in in the column itself in terms of the footnote identifying the areas where it specifically is not required if you are using the provisions of the overlay district so that they are very clear that they do not need to fill out those sections as opposed to just adding it to the existing footnotes because they were they were more actually than the existing footnotes. If it's not required in this chart? Again we're setting this up so that it can be used for potentially other uses in the future and not just it's my understanding and not just the MBTA. I know but I think that makes it too hard. I kind of agree that if the FAR is not a requirement for MBTA communities we should not ask for it and just leave it out we can always add it back in later on if you use it somewhere else but just because you want to make this one chart work for everything it won't work the easiest or the best because it's trying to fit too many criterias. I don't know that's my belief okay I believe if if it's not required don't put it there because they don't need to and they're not going to you know follow one that one footnote there and they go down here and say okay and they go back and say oh this is not required for MBTA. Someone's got you know it's I just think it's make it so much easier for someone who's you know aggrieved. If we are going to have just one chart I think Rachel your idea about having the column that says don't fill out this line if you know right in the MBTA community I think footnotes are not sufficient. I think Ken is right it's too hard to refer up and down but I mean the other the other thing we could do is we could you know basically lightly gray those six there are six sections out and basically identify you know for those projects pursuing section you know 5.9.4. The section related to MBTA communities overlay district you know these these fields are not required or something that's that's another way that way the chart is the same and it's very clear. Don't fill those out. I'm less comfortable with it but I'm okay with it. Okay I'd rather not have one chart used for everything you know I'm always not you know simple with gutter. Right again I think that that just comes to are we going to use site plan review for things right now I think the only place that we currently have this identified is in that is in that section but we have talked about potentially using that in the future so we could edit this application in the future if we did want to do that. I could go either way and I could leave it up to the department to figure out what you all feel is best as well. So I don't believe we have, Gene sent an email before the meeting when he mentioned he wasn't going to be able to be here. We haven't in the past voted to approve application materials because those are typically used by the department. We give feedback. We don't necessarily know that we need to vote on this, but I think if there are additional items as we continue to use this that we certainly could provide feedback if that's helpful. So I think next steps are we've discussed these three items and what we'll do is we have to post a hearing notice if you all are going to vote to change your rules and regulations. So as soon as we can post the hearing notice that you'll look at your rules and regulations, you'll have another opportunity to talk about these again and we can provide a different draft at that point and at that point you'll vote to change your rules and regulations. I'm thinking that will be one of the first meetings in April I think at this point is where we are. So you would include this in the rules and regulations vote is what you're saying? Okay. Yeah. We can do it that way. That'll work. Okay. One more thing. Please, go for it. One more thing for us to talk about. Yep. Under, on page four, drawings of the poll instructors, second to last bullet point, it says graphic information showing facade materials and color samples. Back in the day we used to actually say if you want to bring in materials, color and material samples. Actual samples of materials, you know, this is the brink or this is, you know, they actually bring in samples and then COVID hit and then we went with teams and nobody brought in anything anymore. Yeah, we need to start seeing that stuff again. Samples, clearly. We've had too many, too many miscommunications or we'll call them charitably miscommunications. So if we add somehow, not how you want to word it, but bring in samples of materials, it'd be helpful. Okay. Color and material. Just add end material, right? Facade materials, graphic information showing facade materials and color and material samples because that requires basically a sample board at that point. Yes. But we used to have that back in the day. Yeah. I agree. If you have a larger project, that is important. It's not. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think if you say color and material samples, they'll either bring, you know, a large format or a sample board, but you don't have to say a sample board. All right. In some ways it's actually better not to because then you get a, sometimes a larger brick mock up or something like that. So we always do. Yeah. Depends on the project. And I actually had one more thing, which is a very small thing. Page three, section eight, the second sentence, I think there's a tense change in the middle Oh, yeah. Future and then current. Notifies should just be, or will send should be sends. Yeah.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 29</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. Okay. Okay. Good job. Yeah. Thank you so much for putting this together. This is great. This is really good. All right. That closes agenda item number three.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>4. Open Forum 9:35pm</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 25</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And we'll now move to agenda item number four, open forum. So if there's anyone who wishes to speak this evening, please raise your hand.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>5. New Business 9:50pm</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 25</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. We'll close open forum and move to agenda item number five, new business. And I'll turn it over to Claire for any new business.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 221</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Yes. So I have two to three new business items. One is that we did ultimately receive a letter of compliance for the NVTA communities. Congratulations. Good job. Right after I, I had spoken to some members of the board about, you know, HLC intentions and they did ultimately issue a letter of compliance with conditions, which I will bring in. We will go over that letter as, as a board at a future meeting. Second is we did receive a letter from DOER about the fossil fuel free pilot program. And we are given the letter of compliance from the OHLC for NVTA communities. We are eligible for the fossil fuel free bylaw. We got that letter a few days after the letter. The third thing is, is that our economic feasibility analysis has been completed. It is determined that our inclusionary zoning may be applied in NVTA communities overlay zone. That information has been submitted to DOHLC for review. But I think the language that we put in the bylaw language says if it is determined that our economic feasibility analysis allows for the inclusionary zone to be applied, then it shall be. And so it shall be. Great. That was really good news to get. So those are the three items of new business I have tonight.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 55</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;What a night when we have good news too. Yeah. Fantastic. That's, that's wonderful. And I'm sure that everybody who is participatory in town meeting will be excited to hear that we have closed those items. Thank you so much. Yes. Did you say we submitted our economic feasibility study or that DOHLC accepted it?</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Claire Ricker - 24</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It has been submitted via email to DOHLC. They are in the process of reviewing. Oh, so they're still reviewing. They're still reviewing, yes.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 225</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Fantastic. So I have one item. We had discussed as a board next steps with potentially a joint meeting with the select board. And I had mentioned that I was going to follow up with the select board chair, which I did. We talked about the items that we had identified as potential topics of interest for both the select board and the redevelopment board. And I think the one that they initially felt the most strongly about us, you know, really having a good working session around is one that we have also identified we need to have a working session around, which is the issue of parking. Parking, parking, parking. So what we discussed was potentially a joint meeting in the early summer or the early fall, given that the on-street parking pilot program is concluding in June. So they will have data at that point to be able to discuss the issue of not only on-street parking, but parking in general, because we know that that will come up when I assume we will see again the affordable housing overlay district proposal. We had identified that parking was something we were going to need to address there. We also identified that the residential parking provisions in terms of the alternate compliance path for requesting reduction in completely blanking on the. Thank you.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 59</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;TDM. The TDM requirements needed to be reviewed again and that we needed to potentially add more creative and achievable items to the residential parking list. And so I think, I think a joint meeting where we check through some of the parking implications would be beneficial for both bodies. So any other thoughts? Ken, I see you nodding.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kin Lau - 437</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes, I have maybe two more topics. If they put it on the list, if they want to talk about it, we can. One was about a science person. So we get some sort of funding. We did speak about that. I know that Claire was planning on talking to Director Ciampa, as well as the town manager, and they committed that they would talk to the town manager about that position as well. So we'll just leave that one off until tomorrow. I think that that's something that may be something that the discussion starts before we wind up meeting. And so depending on whether that goes to the 2024 annual budget or not, that would dictate whether or not we have that discussion. If that moves forward for town meeting this year, that's one path, and we need to put it on the table. But if it doesn't, I agree with you. I think we should continue that conversation. Okay. And then my second one was, and I'm not sure, I'm just running this by the board here, but this is my own thing right now, is, you know, there's talk about tree canopy and hot spots and stuff like that. And people are right now using that to say we should put it on all developments and stuff like that. I don't think that's enough or that puts too much burden on development. We've got to start talking about maybe having some islands. So where we have, it's not parking everywhere on all the streets, but we can start including some tree islands that happens in the parking spaces. And does the town want to do that? Because that's where you're really going to get the big bang for the buck, get the tree canopy in there that everybody's talking about, and that's what we have to address there. That's the low-hanging fruit, I believe, not trying to squeeze the extra tree here or there in a parking lot. And then also we talked about, and they started this program of having, what do you call those, rain gardens at the corners of the street. I don't know what happened to that. They built a couple, and I like them. I think they're good. It recharges groundwater. It adds greenery at the corners. It brings the streets closer so you don't cross such wider streets. I think it's a win-win everywhere, and they did a study on it on saying what the most economical way of doing that was, and then they sort of died. I just want to bring that back up again.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 156</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My understanding is that was a grant program. Yeah, I don't know. So just to add on to parking, ZBL section 6110 and 6111. 6110 in particular needs help. It's difficult to understand, even if you've read it a whole bunch of times. To go with sort of a general version of what Mr. Lau is saying, Somerville not too long ago did a curb management plan. So this is basically the city looking at all of the space, curbside space it's using for parking. What else it could be used for and where it's appropriate for some of those other uses. So it could be like outdoor dining. It could be planting areas. It could be rain gardens. It could be bike lanes. It could be short-term loading zones. I think that would, at least in our central business districts, would be worth looking at. But I agree in terms of increasing the tree canopy.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 64</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yeah, places where we have excess parking should be, that's a good place to talk about converting that to a... I'd like to at least start the dialogue, okay? Yeah. And it's not just... Yeah, yeah. At that level that we're talking about, we can follow through, you know. I would like your support and funding. Great. Shana, any other thoughts? No other thoughts.</blockquote>

</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 133</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. I was just going through my notes. One other topic that I did bring up, Claire, was the topic of alcohol licensing and how that may be an impediment to development. Very much, yes. So I think they were looking for more information on specific challenges that the planning department may have encountered and thoughts on what types of modifications would unlock the potential of some of the sites that we've been challenged with. That's a good one. When I moved here, it was a dry town. I'm also trying to find a time for Katie Lucide to come and introduce herself to you all. She's the new economic development director. Great. She's been working on some of these alcohol things. Perfect. That's all I have. All right. Any other new business?</blockquote>

</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary>Adjourn 10:00 pm(Estimated)</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Rachel Zsembery - 35</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;All right. Is there a motion to adjourn? So motioned. Is there a second? Second. Take a vote starting with Steve. Yes. Shana? Yes. Ken? Yes. I'm going to guess as well. Speaking is adjourned.</blockquote>

</details>
</details>