### Town of Arlington School Committee Meeting [Agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1968&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda) [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eBWmnMVxVng) January 11, 2024 6:30 PM

<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17166&MeetingID=1865"</a>6:30 p.m. Open Meeting</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 59</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hi, welcome to this regular meeting of the Arlington School Committee on January 11th, 2024, our first meeting of the new year. We've started with a slight delay because of technical difficulties with our mics. If you're having problems, we've done our best to fix it, but you can send an email to Ms. Diggins to let us know.</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17167&MeetingID=1865"</a>6:35 p.m. Public Comment</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 8</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We do not have any public speakers today.</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17171&MeetingID=1865 "</a>6:45 p.m. AHS Student Representative(s) to School Committee</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe and Jenna Madero - 238</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We do have our AEA representative, Ms. Jenna Madero, sorry, I know her by her former name, and she's on Zoom with us, and we have our AEA, two of our AEA student reps, Matt Hagenbeek and Graham Minnick, so thank you. So we will start with your, any comments you folks have? All right, I don't know, there's not much to say really. We're having a Winter Crafts Fair coming up in two weeks, which is supposed to be like part of our Inclusion and Diversity Committee, just getting local and like school and just in town, vendors involved, trying to like sell goods, just be a little festive, and it'll be held here, I think on the 28th or 9th. I don't know if sports seasons are going, it's coming to like playoffs slash like end of the season time. I don't know, it's been a nice, calm end to the second quarter. Okay, great, thank you. Question? How goes the demolition? It goes. It's honestly like, you can't really notice it when you're in school, so it's nice. I mean, for me, for track, I have to like go into the old building, and there you kind of notice it, but other than that, it's not that bad. I know after school that I saw a bunch of students standing over on Shuler Court watching it, you know, it's kind of fun. Yeah. Yeah. Great.</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17206&MeetingID=1865 "</a>6:50 p.m. Discussion and vote for approval - Gibbs Overnight Experience</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 333</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And next, we have the discussion and vote for approval for the Gibbs overnight experience. And I'll take this. If there's anything, I forget, jump in. So, we are doing an overnight trip for our 6th grade students at the Gibbs. We have gotten indication from families of how many are intending to come. There are some materials in your packet for tonight that we received today, just so that you had some backup material and understanding of what the cost would be. And right now, where we are with this is that there is an estimated cost per student of about $512. That's the estimated cost per student. It's lower than the $525 because we're estimating cost based on the assumption that all students will attend, which is not at the moment the case. But regardless, there's cost of busing supplies for students who might need additional supplies and the cost of including the teachers in the cost breakdown. We have to pay for teachers beyond a certain number to go, and we also need to stipend teachers, particularly for staying later into the evening. So, we factored that into the cost, but of course, if we hit a point where we find that we can reimburse families for cost, we will certainly entertain that. There's some additional materials about the activities that will happen for the students who stay back. They will be doing some science-related activities that are project-based and interactive through what's called engineering. It's an engineering curriculum that they'll be doing if they stay back. And then, right now, the numbers that we have is that we have 353 students interested in going, 56 families who have indicated that they're not planning on attending, and we're still waiting for responses from about 60 students. And we do have a number of students who are going to require full assistance with payment and some who are going to require some level of financial assistance. Engineering everywhere. Engineering everywhere. Sorry.</blockquote>

Great. Thank you. Does anyone have any questions? Okay. I don't see the details in NOVUS as to where we're going and, you know, the dates and everything else. So, we have that. We're going to Nature's Classroom. The dates, do you have the dates? Yeah. We were trying to get our hands on the actual agreement for tonight, and we didn't have it, but we wanted to make sure that there was approval for this before we started asking families to commit and send in their financial documents. We've discussed this at CIAA several times. Where is Nature's Classroom located? Massachusetts. Massachusetts, yeah. The reason for the need for school committee approval was that it's an overhead trip. Yeah. All right. The dates are May 1st through May 3rd, May 6th through May 8th, and May 8th through May 10th. They'll go as one LC for that first date, and then two LCs will go for each of the two subsequent dates. We've had to change the dates a couple of times because we originally had them over a holiday. As this correspondence from Dr. Hoyo is new, I guess I'm reading the sentence at the end of the first paragraph. Given that the school committee was very invested in an overnight experience to happen in APS, I think it's important that they know this and could brainstorm how APS will help fund this venture. That's not really how we operate, but I guess my question would be to Dr. Homan, we don't brainstorm, but we can provide direction. I wasn't expecting a request from the administration. This is not a request from the administration. That is correspondence I got earlier this afternoon that had a bit of detail in it. It is not from me or us a request for you to brainstorm funding opportunities. We have this covered right now. We have the ability to make this happen for students and to learn a lot from this initial year of doing this at Gibbs, and then we can use that information to figure out what we might want to adjust in future years, what partnerships we might want to develop with PTO or PTOs to help with any additional funding we might need. Great. Thank you. Yep. Anyone else? Yeah, so let me just clarify because I was a little bit indirect. So for the students who are unable to pay, the district is covering the cost of those students? The amount that we have asked for from families is going to give us the ability to make sure that every student has the supplies that they need if we need to invest in additional supplies and that we will be able to pay the teachers. In the event that we do not have in this fund the dollars to cover the students who need additional financial assistance, we will cover additional financial assistance assuming we do not fundraise any additional dollars. We do have families who have indicated they may be willing to donate to the district. We have not. We're not advertising or asking that families invest in that, but it could be that we have some additional dollars in this fund that will make it more self-sustaining. We're aiming for self-sustaining. If we can, if we can't, we will pull from one of the revolving and make it work.</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 48</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Great. Thank you. Any further questions? Can I have a motion to approve? So moved. Anyone want to second? Second. Okay. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Any abstentions? Okay, so that passes unanimously. And I forgot to mention before, Ms. Exton is unable to join us tonight.</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17172&MeetingID=1865"</a>7:05 p.m. School Committee Budget Priorities (K. Allison-Ampe)</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 52</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay, next we have the school committee budget priorities. This is our chance to, as part of the budget process, to discuss what our thoughts are in terms of where APS should be focusing their monies for the next year. And I think I'll just go around in order from Ms. Goodleson.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Laura Gitelson - 134</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sure. So I just have some notes. My first priority I think everybody probably shares, but it seems like it merits saying out loud, is that salaries. We got the override and we've reached the agreement with unit D, but I'm excited to see what happens with unit A. Within that, I think I would be staffing with particular attention to special education, making sure that we can meet all of the needs of all of our students. One smaller item that had stood out to me from the EEA requests was the technology requests that all paras have access to Chromebooks. And then I'm also supportive of the goal of full-time librarians across all of the elementary schools. And finally, just making sure we have sufficient support for the ELA rollout next year.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Jane Morgan - 179</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So I share all of those priorities actually. So just to repeat, the competitive compensation, the librarians, the staffing for special education, and technology investments, I think as I've indicated in budget subcommittee, we do need to do a little bit more of our homework to find out exactly where the needs are for the technology investments, but we should set aside some funding for that. I'm not sure every paraprofessional needs their own Chromebook, but that might be a place. Again, we've heard a lot about the projectors in the rooms. Again, I'm not sure that's the highest priority either, but there are some funding needs clearly there. And then we've talked a long time about running a bus to OMS, and I understand that that's in the works, but if that needs additional funding to make it happen, I would like to see that put into the budget. And also, as we just discussed with the overnight experience, if that needs additional money, I would like to see that rolled into the budget as well. Thank you.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Liz Exton - 82</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Erica? So compensation, compensation, compensation, you today, you today, you today, which I think there's unanimity around, which is great, and librarians feel it's very important staffing around special education, whether there are things that we can do around special ed staffing within the contract as well. Are there promises that we can make in the contract that we can then make good on around staffing and ratios? If that works out, that feels very important. So, yeah, that's it. Thank you.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Len Kardon - 486</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. Mr. Goodman? Thank you. So compensation, obviously, that's why we lobbied hard for the override. I would say, in addition to that, something that's been discussed in our meetings has been the need for more custodians in different schools, including the high school end. I think when I first came on the committee, I would have never argued for more custodians, but the older I get, the more I realize that custodians actually make for a healthier school, a more enjoyable place for students to learn, and a better place for a principal to manage. So I would be advocating for that. There was conversation at some point about the need for a late bus for METCO students who want to stay after school for activities and stay later, and I think I'd like to see if we could make that a priority. Obviously, I support the three librarians who have been trying for a long time to get back to a librarian in every school, or enough librarians in every school, so I would definitely want to support the three librarians. You know, there's a number of different staffing needs in different departments that I don't have a good feel for, but I know we've heard talk about needs in human resources and other departments. So some of those things that we don't see so much that can help the district run better are important to keep in mind. I share, being on the Facilities Subcommittee, I share Mr. Heelman's thoughts on the custodians. In order to maintain this building in a manner that we'd like to see it, and the other buildings around town, we are understaffed, and I think that it's important for us to take care of the resources that the voters have provided for us. Librarians, obviously, we're close to getting back to where we were in 2004. I think this is the year we should be able to do it. We need to keep the technology up to date because teachers are frustrated when things don't work because they're worn out or just obsolete, so we need to keep enough money in the budget to maintain the operability of our systems. Obviously, compensation. We went to the town and said this is our big priority for the override, and I do want to see us paying a more competitive salary for the purposes of recruitment and retention. I just want to make sure that we also have sufficient people doing the work in special ed so that we're able to be compliant with all deadlines and the paperwork of running a district, and I will always say that we probably don't have enough social workers. It's a big system, and kids have a unique set of problems and challenges, which are considerably different now than they were three years ago before the pandemic, and we need to support them.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 279</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. Thank you. So my first compensation, and I'm not going to go into great depth because everyone else has already done these things. My second one are both the preschool and the special education requests. I think it's important to be serving our most vulnerable students as best as possible. Third is staffing the new high school building appropriately. When we planned this high school, we assumed certain new staffing requirements, including new additional custodians, and it's important to follow through with that, or we're not going to be able to maintain this building in the shape that it is, and that's doing a disservice for our taxpayers and for our students. And then fourth, I lump a bunch of them together. The late bus for METCO, I think that's important to help our METCO students feel a true sense of belonging so they can participate in things, the social workers at the various elementary schools, the librarians, and the increased staffing at Audison to account for the increased population that they're going to be seeing next year. I do note that when I look through the requests that we were provided in December, it feels like some of them are more appropriately one-time, and I would think that we could do them out of reserves. And I'd like to see, for example, the communications budget updated a little because it sounded like it had both one-time things and ongoing, and so I want to see that broken out. And also I question whether the translation budget, doesn't that fall into communications also? And so I just want to have a sense of where those things are going.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 22</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So any further comments from anyone? Okay. Do you have any questions for us? I don't think so. Okay. I appreciate it.</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17175&MeetingID=1865 "</a>7:20 p.m. First Read - SY2024-2025, SY2025-2026, SY2026-2027 Calendar (E. Homan)</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 177</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. We are rejoining you after a brief technical difficulty. We had just begun reading the first read of our calendars for the next three years. Okay. So for a little bit of context, we've been trying to get to having three calendars for the committee to review at a time for quite some time, so I'm excited to bring you three years. I can anticipate that we're going to see some challenges with these calendars that we're going to need to address. I know already that we're going to need to put one more all-district early release in because right now all of the current calendars only have five, so we're going to need one additional one because we do six because we do the courses for educators on those all-early release days. I do want to point out a couple of sort of differences between these than others, and then if there are any other questions, myself and Ms. Diggins, who does a lot of hard work on these, are happy to answer any questions.</blockquote>

The first one is that we've had this happen a couple of times now where there's voting, there's primaries on the first day of school. It's just something that happens every once in a while, but it has now happened a couple of times in a row, and it is challenging to hold a first day of school without all of our available spaces for teaching students routines. We have significant portions of the school that are not available. Because of the timing of Labor Day next year, we've drafted a calendar, and we're open to feedback on this, that places the two teacher days on the 28th and 29th of August and then waits until the Wednesday for everybody to have their first day of school. That is an early release day, but it avoids us being in school on a day that might have some pretty heavy voting, given that it will be an election year, and that's a primary voting day. So there's that on the 24-25 calendar. as well as the teacher PD day on the November election day, and then on the 25, 26 calendar. That is a year that for the teacher professional development day, we would typically put it the day after Halloween on the 1st of November, but because the 1st of November is a Saturday, we looked at the Tuesday that is a voting day and had it on the 4th initially, but then we took a look at that and realized it would be two Tuesdays in a row that the students would be out of school and that the Monday followed by a Tuesday off followed by the rest of the week is sort of a disruptive week. So we put the teacher professional development day on the 10th that year, and that creates a four day weekend around the Veterans Day holiday. So that's there for the school committee to consider as well. And then the 26, 27 calendar had an error on in May that Ms. Diggins corrected this evening. I'm actually not sure what it was. I just told her to go with check of A and she fixed it. And we had to adjust then the last day of school, I believe, because of that adjustment as well. So happy to take questions, concerns, comments, any additional adjustments that we might need to make between now and another reading of these. So I think it's important to point out that the 26, 27 calendar is our first calendar ever, as far as I know, in the district where we would start before Labor Day. So I think we need to have a separate discussion, possible dialogue with the community about that. We did have survey results, which are probably now 10 years old, that indicated that people were open to that. But in this year, it only buys us two days. The way we've structured it in the contract, it only buys us two days. It's not a day, it's not a year where we have both Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur, there's only Yom Kippur. So we still, even if we started on our normal Tuesday, we would still end June 21st, it's a Monday, which is not really quite late compared to the other years. So I would, I don't know if we want to handle that year differently than the other two or what we want to do, but I just wanted to point that out because that would be a significant change for the community. I want to note that was an adjustment that came as a result of adjusted contract language that said that when the last, when the first day after Labor Day was sufficiently late, that we could begin students before Labor Day. So that was contract language that we had agreed to in the last round of negotiations, but that doesn't necessarily mean that we have to start before Labor Day if it's gonna be a challenge for families. And for other members of the community. Mr. Shulkin. My gut instinct is a day in September is worth more than a day in late June. So I would be very happy to open those two days in the 2026, 27 calendar. But I also note that if we go and adopt these things as calendars, the subsequent years are tentative. And if we find issues, I'm sure we'll be working around the edges to fix things. Mr. Steele. Yeah, I just wanted to clarify, we would be voting on the calendar for the 24, 25 school year, and the other two would be drafts that we would be sharing with the community. We're not adopting those at this time, or are we doing all three at once? My thinking was that we would do all three at once, and then if we needed to do adjustments to them down the road, we could always vote a new calendar in, but this would give families the ability to plan ahead. Okay, so we're adopting all three, and then the motion would be we adopt all three with the understanding we may modify years two and three based on new information. What we certainly would try not to do is modify years two and threes, start and end dates. Like we would make maybe small adjustments, but once we voted years two and three, and the whole goal is to give families that much lead time in terms of their planning, especially on start and end dates and breaks. Okay, other comments? So this is my first calendar season, budget, whatever. My gut reaction to the 26, 27 starting before Labor Day is that as the parent of young children and mostly knowing parents of young children, most people I know would be happy to not be scrambling for childcare that last week of the summer when summer camps are all but non-existent. And I mean, this is only two days of school, so it doesn't like really solve everybody's problem, but it's always a real issue for families who need childcare that last week because so many other school districts do start before Labor Day. So summer camp availability is less. So yes, and people are pretty passionate about Labor Day. So I guess I would like, I'm just trying to think if there's some sort of feedback loop that we can do on this, whereby if we're not, like the data that we've gotten has been very mixed about this. So it's always been hard to be like, well, that's clearly that way. And we couldn't until, you know, we couldn't within our contract. And now we're just at a, we're at a place where we could do it. It is a little bit tricky because of like, it's not as compelling as I would have liked for it to be on the first time we make that stand before Labor Day. But this is a first read. I don't know if we want to like send something out and ask for feedback if we want to vote all three of these. I don't know if we're back here in two weeks or three weeks, but I think it would be helpful to hear from folks in case there are a lot of passions around this. Okay. And that was my second time. You know, the only thing I always agree with, I agree with Mr. Schlickman that the academic days are better in September or prior to Labor Day than they are in June. And so I've, and I've also the same thing that Ms. Skittleson said about childcare that last week is always a challenge because camps end. And so I'm very comfortable with that third year, with the starting before Labor Day and the third year of this calendar sequence, personally. And I would vote for it in two weeks. That said, if people want to do a survey or get more information, that's fine, but I'm very comfortable with it. Okay. Ms. Smith? Ms. Medeiros? Yes, so I'm curious that the textbooks that you talked to here in the last two calendars, did you text a lot of the people that were doing the social care process or did you do a lot of that? We can absolutely talk about that with Dr. Jenger. And I'm not sure that could have been a holdover from something we did this year, but we'll take a look at it. We can adjust conferences pretty easily. Makes sense. So my thoughts on the calendars, first for the 2020, first, I think it's absolutely amazing and fantastic that you're doing this. We've been looking for calendars in advance of just the next year for a long, long time. So this is great. In terms of the 2026 starting before Labor Day, I would be much more compelled if there was more than two days of school that week. The fact that it's only two days of school makes me a little, makes me less happy about it because it just makes for more broken up weeks and stuff. And then just as a feedback, I'm confused by the, under the early release, there's a, the code, a solid letter A. So it says 1 p.m. for all, 1.20 for AHS, OHS, OMS, Gibbs, 1.30 for monotony. So I don't understand. It can't be one for all and 1.20 for. Yeah, the all should say elementary. Okay. That's the release time for elementary. 1.20 is the release time for A and then 1.30 for monotony. Okay, so then we just need to add. Yeah, we can fix that. Great. And then at least on my copies, the holidays and stuff didn't come out, but that's, we can see. Okay, is there any other comments? Do we want to, so I'm wondering if we could, we could, next time we could approve the first two calendars and figure out how we're going to seek feedback about the third calendar, especially since it's the third year. We could probably place a poll in my next superintendent's newsletter on that or send out a separate one, like separately. So I can think with Ms. Pierre about that. Okay. Okay, I think that's it for this item.</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 807</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So next we have the superintendent's goals, the first read. Dr. Holman. All right, so I have submitted a draft set of goals. I am more than happy to take feedback on the goals. A couple of highlights. Just to note, the materials are in your, I'm not gonna project them, but in your materials. The student learning goal is focused on closing opportunity and achievement gaps for students with some focuses on implementation of the new K-5 literacy curriculum with the remaining three quarters of our elementary classrooms, establishing strategic plan working groups to make sure that we're moving forward on our priority one initiatives, expansion of or continuation of instructional rounds with teachers and ILTs, which a lot of our ILTs are doing this year to keep developing that culture of learning amongst our adults in APS. Professional practice goal is focused on building our capacity to use frequent feedback from community staff members and students to inform how we respond to conflicts and contentious topics, as well as ensure that we're being really inclusive in the design of all of our initiatives. There are a number of action steps that have been ongoing so far this year and that we hope to continue, including opening the Family Welcome Center, implementing office hours, superintendent office hours with staff, as well as other opportunities for me to connect directly with families, including our students and faculty in the design of our all district events, including our opening day in November 1st, PD Day, which we did this past year, and continuing to work on our retention strategies, gathering of feedback, holding job fairs, some of the initiatives that we've done throughout this year. There are also two, I think, two district improvement goals. One is to expand, and they're kind of linked to one another, this first district improvement goal and the professional practice goal. This is something that I think both the system needs to improve upon and that I'm working on improving upon also based on the feedback that I received in response to my evaluation this year. But district improvement goal one is to expand and improve our two-way engagement with families and opportunities for APS family learning and connection with one another. Again, the Family Welcome Center and Resource Hub and our new roles in that office have a lot to do with our ability to improve capacity in this area. We wanna revise the family survey in response to feedback that we just got on it, make sure we're responding to trends in our family surveys with an emphasis on doing things like focus groups, empathy interviews, more engagement opportunities directly with me and other members of our administration and staff, partnering with our CPAC to establish resources and implement family forums on topics of interest, both for our students who have students who have, both for our families who have students with IEPs as well as for all families across the district. We wanna make sure we establish a Multilingual Learner Parent Advisory Committee and we wanna work on implementing some family workshops for family learning opportunities as well. And then district improvement goal number two is to make sure we're expanding our understanding of what deeper learning principles are and giving opportunities for deeper learning experiences, both for our staff and for our students. So one of the goals of the strategic plan is to develop an instructional vision. We've been talking a lot about deeper learning and I think we need to define it for everybody so that they know what it means, what it looks like, what we're talking about when we talk about expanding opportunities for deeper learning, like when we're putting new classes in place that are more interdisciplinary at the high school, for example, or when we are taking our students in sixth grade for an immersive trip where they get to spend time with one another overnight. These are things that we see as aligned to deeper learning, that's why we're doing them, but we need a better definition so that our full community understands that and has opportunities to engage in that work with us. So those are the goals. I think I've tweaked over the last couple of days in response to feedback from all of you, the outcomes, and I'm happy to answer questions about some of those. Some of them will become a little clearer when you get a report out on panorama results in a couple of weeks because they're specific to categories where we see results that either concern us or that we wanna see change or where we really wanna close gaps based on what families, students, and staff are reporting. So happy to take any notes on these. Okay, anyone have any comments? Mr. Thielman.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Jeff Thielman - 621</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yeah, thanks very much. I just wanna clarify on some of the performance measures on goal, the professional practice goal, the established baselines for measuring retention of staff, including staff in BIPOC and LGBTQIA+, and focal groups, are you, so year one is established, the benchmarks, and then year two is? Would be to develop a goal around what do we wanna do with them because right now we don't really have retention measures that we would call reliable and that we sort of trust and track. So one of the things that Mr. Spiegel and I have been talking about working on is how do we actually track that? And then once we track it and kind of have a baseline for how we're going to keep track of retention and when somebody moves out, why, and how we wanna measure that data, because right now we have it quite qualitatively. And we do the exit interviews and we have the sort of qualitative report out on that, but we'd like to make it more quantitative. So this would just establish what does that data look like, what is it that we're measuring, and then in future years the hope would be that we could set some goals around like improve retention for this subgroup because we're seeing this trend. But we have retention data for all? Do we have retention data for all? Yes. We do, but you don't have to. But dividing it out by focal groups is not something. Has not been done. And have you ever looked into automating, kind of setting up an automated system? There are systems that can do that. Do we have them? I mean, excuse me, right now we do a Google form. And I can do it that way. There are other systems we could look into. The organization I lead is no better, by the way. Our HR system could do it, but it's not set up to. We have talked about this to get a more, because the problem is with exit interviews is that it can be very subjective. Yes. It can be your view of what the person said rather than what's said on a form, because that gives you more information that's more objective. And then, will you say in here improve reported family experience on experience surveys? So, there'll be a reference somewhere of what we experienced in fall of 22 and. Yeah, so that one, we are currently in the process of revising the family survey, and all the surveys, based on, we had such record response rates on this last administration that we also got a lot of feedback on the survey itself, on how it's administered, on some of the questions we asked. So we're planning on revising it. So the way I phrase that is, for those things that we decide to survey again, because it could be that we switch out some of the categories, then what I would want to do is compare results from last fall through next spring to demonstrate improvement on those categories that we're surveying year over year. All right, and then, and then the last one where it's more opportunities to expand that access, expand that participation, that's kind of, that is hard to measure. Yes, some of these are hard to measure. Okay, so I don't know. You'd get qualitative evidence, probably, of that. It's not, it's more of an output than an outcome, but I was trying to mix. Yeah, that's fine. Types of data you're getting. I wouldn't know how I would make it more quantitative myself, so. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else have any other comments, questions?</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 ? - 282</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay, I had sent in some feedback, which has been, it was just, I was just trying to get some clarification about some of the outcome measurements, so that we, when we go to evaluate the superintendent using these criteria, we actually have something that we can look at and go, yes, you made it, no, you didn't, or you made partial, whatever. So, yeah, okay. Just one comment. So, I mean, I appreciate the goal to try to get more outcome-type measures, but I also think it's okay to have measures where if you, say, implement the new ELA curriculum, if you did that, that you met your goal. I mean, I do think you could have some of those type of goals in there now, or? So, I put a lot of that stuff in the description and action steps. I would like to have a couple examples like that that are, it's easy to say yes, but I'm also trying not to make it just a check, because that's an output and not an outcome. I was trying to keep the outcomes as outcome-y as possible. Yeah, yeah. Okay, thanks. Yeah. You keep going for the measurable. I was trying to go for as measurable as possible. There are certainly things like, for example, improved reported experience of educators in office hours. That's fully qualitative. That's based in notes that I take during office hours. So, that won't have a number to it. And I value qualitative output. outcomes too, so there will be obviously artifacts that tie to the action steps included in my evidence that as well as some of these quantitative measures that are more outcome-based.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 40</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Any further comments, questions? Okay, seeing none we will move on. I'm sorry, just so that I remember for the standards DESE gives us a rubric, right? Yes. Neat. Okay, thank you. I love using other people's rubrics. Thank you.</blockquote>

[7:40 p.m. Superintendent's Update (E. Homan)](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17168&MeetingID=1865)</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 9</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay, back to you Dr. Homan with the update.</blockquote>

      * Update on Administrative Hiring Searches
      * Update on Competitive Grants Awarded
      * Monthly Update on Enrollments / Class Sizes
      * Strategic Plan Update</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Elizabeth Homan - 905</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay, so we are very pleased to report that we got to celebrate the opening of Monotomy Preschool right below us over the last couple of weeks and it is an absolutely beautiful space. I'm sure you have all gotten to see as you've driven up to the offices the beautiful tree. It's really a work of art. And the entrance to Monotomy, that theme of sort of nature and trees runs through the entire space. It's a very playful space, it's a very bright space, lots of natural light, and it's really just something special for our littlest learners. So it's been really exciting to welcome them into the new school. They were so excited to enter on that first day. We welcomed families and had a little ceremony with a number of elected officials and some of you and celebrated the opening of Monotomy Preschool. So hooray! It was a little bit of a delay. They're still waiting for their playground, but that's okay because they have a beautiful multi-purpose room and we turned it into a lovely indoor recess space while we wait for the surface. They couldn't surface the playground because of the temperature, because it's a rubber surface, so they have to wait until it warms up a little bit before we can put that in. But almost all the way there. We will be having public tours of the new Arlington High School wings, the central office, and Monotomy on Saturday, January 20th from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. Thank you to those of you who have volunteered to help us direct traffic. We will have a guide for those. You'll sort of have your own guide. It's a self-guided tour, but you'll have both a digital version and a paper version of a guide to sort of help you go through the spaces and know what it is that you're looking at. And we'll have a number of volunteers there to help steer you in whatever direction you're headed so that you can check out our new spaces. It's possible those will be limited primarily to the phase two spaces, but if we have enough volunteers we'll open up some of the phase one spaces as well. I wanted to update the community that we're looking forward to launching an Audison Middle School bus. There will be more information coming to the Audison community about this very soon. This will be a bus from the East Arlington area to Audison to help alleviate some of the pressures that we know students and families have felt around getting to school on time given the morning rush and the service of the MBTA sometimes can't keep up with that. So we're looking forward to helping out with that. We know that it's been a pressure for families and a point of frustration, so I will send more info about that soon. There will be fees associated with riding this bus and probably a lottery in the event that we have more interest than the bus itself can hold. We have some anticipated spring administrative hiring searches coming up. All of these roles are currently filled by interim leaders. Hardy principal will be up first. We'll need to identify a permanent leader for the Hardy school right now. We have an interim principal there. The mathematics director currently is interim. Mr. Coleman moved into the research data and accountability role and so we'll need to identify a permanent mathematics director. And we also have a role at Audison for assistant principal and Metco director that are interim and we'll need to run searches for those as well. So we'll be keeping you posted as we head into hiring season on the status of those searches. And I wanted to give you an update on working groups. So we had new members join us. These are families, students, staff members join us on this past week and those new members are joining working groups that they signed up for applied to join and that our facilitators worked with us to determine how to make sort of as diverse a group of roles and expertise as possible in the working groups. They're going to be completing information gathering and action cycles aligned with the strategic plan initiatives for the remainder of the 2023 and 24 school year. Emphasis on the fact that these working groups are working. They are intended to go out into the community and gather information, come back from their very different roles. They have access to different kinds of people in the community so they can get a lot of different information from those people about what it is that the system needs. The strategic plan, while it maps out things that we know we need to do, it also leaves enough room for us to iterate and figure out how what we might need to adjust about our plan in order to move the work forward in a way that involves the community. And so that's what these working groups are intended to do. So I want to thank again the Arlington Education Foundation for funding compensation through a district improvement grant for these working group members so that they could participate in this. It's a paid opportunity for the members who have recently joined us and your enrollments are in your materials. Happy to take any questions.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 7</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Any questions? Okay, seeing none, thank you.</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17143&MeetingID=1865"</a>7:50 p.m. Consent Agenda (K. Allison-Ampe)</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 199</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Next we have the consent agenda. So all items listed with an asterisk are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the committee so requests in which event the item will be considered in its normal sequence. Warrant number 24147, December 19th, 2023, $1,100,393.65. Warrant number 24166, January 3rd, 2024, in the amount of $700,401.42. Draft school committee minutes of December 14th, 2023 and draft school committee special meeting minutes dated December 21st, 2023. Mr. Schlickman. I would like to pull 24166 off the consent agenda due to conflict. Okay, so we will vote. Is there anyone else? Okay, so can I have a motion to approve the remaining items? So moved. Can I have a second? Second. Okay, all in favor? Yes. Any opposed? Any abstentions? Okay, so that's unanimous. Now we're going to vote on warrant number 24166 and we are conflicted. Yeah, both Mr. Schlickman and I are conflicted because it covers MESC conference payments. I move approval. Second. Any further comments? Okay, all in favor? Yes. Any opposed? Any abstentions? Abstain. Okay, so that's 4-0-2, but it passes.</blockquote>

    *Warrant #24147, December 19, 2023, $1,136393.65
    *Warrant #24166, January 3, 2024, $700,401.42
    *DRAFT School Committee Meeting Minutes, December 14, 2023
    *DRAFT School Committee Special Meeting Minutes, December 21, 2023
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17169&MeetingID=1865"</a>7:55 p.m. Subcommittee/Liaison Reports/Announcements (K. Allison-Ampe)</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 11</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay, next we have the subcommittee liaison reports budget. Mr. Carton.</blockquote>

      * Budget – Len Kardon, Chair
        -Possible approval of a new revolving fund for the   Arlington High School cafe.
	-Vote to approve APS rental fee schedule.
	* Community Relations – Liz Exton, Chair
	* Curriculum, Instruction, Assessment & Accountability – Jane Morgan, Chair
	* Facilities – Jeff Thielman, Chair
	* Policy & Procedures – Paul Schlichtman, Chair
	* Arlington High School Building Committee, Jeff Thielman, Chair
	* Liaison Reports
	* Announcements
	* Future Agenda Items</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Len Kardon - 77</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So we met this week to get an update on the planning for the 25 budget that's coming to us in early February. We will meet again, I don't have the date in front of me, later in the month to get a little bit more detail before it comes to the full committee. We also reviewed the, there's two new fees that's in the schedule that's in NOVIS. Mr. Mason, do you want to explain it?</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Michael Mason - 175</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The two new items are the fee for the OMS bus. The OMS bus is only in the morning, so it's half the fee of a regular bus. And then we're adjusting, I don't know if we're adjusting or establishing new fees for the auditorium rental. Yes, so there are new fees. Give me a second, I was pulling up this exact item. So there are new fees for the auditorium. The auditorium rental, we did a analysis of the town manager 12 comparable communities to come up with an ideal rate considering that our auditorium is state-of-the-art and one of the newer auditoriums. The rate is that we've proposed is $750 for a three-hour minimum rental with the mandatory theater supervisor fee that's like $25 an hour to add on to that. And then there's additional add-ons for lighting, rigging, sound, audio, and I'm hope I'm not missing it. And last but not least, it was videography that was added on for the various amounts and those will be optional add-ons and not requirements.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 46</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. So yes, so the the budget subcommittee moved that we recommended that the fees schedule be adopted by the full committee. Do you want to make a motion? I move that the revised fee schedule be adopted. Second. Any further questions or comments? Mr. Schluchman.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Paul Schlichtman - 89</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. There's a note three. Custodial rates or estimated rates, actual rates are in accordance with the contracts. So what we're saying is that because I don't see where this is referencing to. Okay. So the custodial rate will be on top of anything else we're doing. Correct. So if you want the gym, you're going to pay $123 for three hours at the bracket plus $45 an hour for the custodian. Yes. Okay. Yeah. I get it now. Sorry if that wasn't clear. Any other questions or comments?</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 64</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. All in favor? Yes. Any opposed? Any abstentions? Okay. So that passes unanimously. Okay. So we also had the there was discussion of a possible new revolving fund for the Arlington High School Cafe and we tucked it under budget because it had to do with money but we didn't actually discuss it at budget. Mr. Mason do you want to discuss this?</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Michael Mason - 155</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes. So it would be appreciated if the committee could make a motion to approve a new fund. It'll be a new revolving fund for the student cafe at the high school. This was part of the building design. In the spine of the building when you come into the main entrance you see a nice big foyer and you'll see the cafe stands that are currently empty. We're getting ready to put some inventory in there and get a point-of-sale systems to collect for the different items that will be for sale there including various items that will be prepared by the students. So in order to us for us to collect funds the comptroller of the town of Arlington would require the school committee to approve a new revolving fund. So just to be clear this is separate from the cafeteria. This is a cafe. It's it's in a different location. Mr. Fleckman.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Paul Schlichtman - 28</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Is this an internal fee within the school department or is this a revolving fund that would need town meeting to play with? I assume this is internal.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 155</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This is internal. Correct. Any other questions or comments? Can someone make the motion? Second. Okay. Any further comments? Okay. All in favor? Yes. Yes. Yes. Any opposed? Any abstentions? Okay. So that passes unanimously. What next? Curriculum. Okay so that was budget. Now we have community regulations. Ms. Exton isn't here. Just before this meeting I received notice that our representative to the Rainbow Commission has resigned and so we'll need to appoint someone and also I had in late December I had heard from Mr. Hainer who had been a representative on the Arlington 250 committee and he also requests I mean he's resigned so I'm going to pass those two names on to Ms. Exton to appoint our representatives to those commissions. Well they'll they'll make a recommendation to us. They'll do all the hard work and then bring us somebody. Yes that's what I mean. Okay. Curriculum instruction assessment and accountability.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Jane Morgan - 18</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes we met yesterday talked about SSTs and we have another meeting scheduled in the end of March.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Paul Schlichtman - 145</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. Facilities. No report. Policy and procedures. Thank you. We have a meeting scheduled for, I just lost the date, Wednesday January 24th at 3 p.m. at the beautiful Central Office 14 Millbrook Drive in Arlington. Arlington High School Building Committee. We're having an open house or tours rather on January 20th and we need volunteers. If everyone can volunteer that would be great. Student volunteers. I know Mr. McCarthy I think is recruiting folks so if you'd like to help out on a Saturday morning, although I think you have a lot of commitments of those sports and activities, but if you can be there great. We're looking for folks to volunteer the more people the merrier. Yeah. The construction project is going along and as we discussed earlier the some of the buildings are coming down and we're moving forward on phase three.</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 95</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Liaison reports. Can I just, because I was at the community really community chat on Saturday, I just wanted to, so it was Ms. Exton and I, the subject was budget and after-school. Dr. Homan was there. Mr. Mason was there. I can't remember if there were other admins there. It was very well attended. Definitely the most, the largest number of people I've seen at a community chat in my short time and people had, were very engaged and I think Dr. Homan took lots of notes. So any reports? Announcements? Future agenda items?</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17170&MeetingID=1865* "</a>8:00 p.m. Executive Session</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 187</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Okay. Well at this point we will go into executive session and we do not plan on returning, correct? Right. Okay. So we're going into executive session to conduct strategy sessions and preparation for negotiations with union and or non-union personnel or contract negotiations with union and or non-union in which, if held in an open meeting, may have a detrimental effect to conduct strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation in which, if held in an open meeting, may have a detrimental effect. Collective bargaining may also be conducted and we will be discussing the Arlington Education Association, Unit A negotiations and American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employee, AFL-CIO, State Council 93, Local 680, School Cafeteria Workers Discussions. So can I have a motion to go into executive session? So moved. Hello folks. Second. Somebody? Yes. That's the wrong answer. I have to pay attention. I'm going to start throwing around shoes at you. Okay. Ms. Gittleson? Yes. Mr. Carter? Yes. Ms. Morgan? Yes. Mr. Thielman? Yes. Mr. Schlickman? Yes. Can I vote yes also? So we are now going into executive session.</blockquote>
</details>
</details>
<details>
<summary><a href="https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=17140&MeetingID=1865"</a>8:00 p.m. Adjournment</summary> 
<details>
<summary>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	 Kirsi Allison-Ampe - 168</summary>
<blockquote>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: This Week, Good News, and Happy Holidays, 12/17/2023		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: FYI, 12/21/2023		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: Fwd: LABBB FY 23 Annual Report and Audit, 12/21/2023		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: FYI in case you hear from press/ 12/21/2023		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE:  Fwd: Hate Symbol at OMS, 12/22/2023		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: Fwd: Notice of Public Comment – Proposed Changes to the District and School Accountability System for 2024 Reporting, 12/29/2023.		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE:Fwd: Request for Public Comment - Special Education Procedures, 12/29/2023.		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: FYI: Peirce Lead Findings, 1/5/2024		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: FYI, 1/5/2024		* Email to SC from K. Radville, RE: Materials for Dissemination to the School Committee, 1/7/2024		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: Letter from Nurses, 1/8/2024		* Email to SC from E. Homan, RE: FYI, 1/11/2024</blockquote>
</details>
</details>