#### [Arlington Select Board - July 17th, 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvrSC_-RZGs)   
#### Mon Jul 17, 2023

<details><summary>Please, summarize the select board meeting.</summary>

> The select board meeting discussed a variety of topics. First, they discussed the approval of a liquor license for a new business, with the board ultimately voting in favor. They also discussed the appointment of a select board member to co-chair the override campaign committee, with the current chair being nominated and approved. The board also discussed traffic and signage rules for electric bus and vehicle charging stations at a local middle school. Finally, the town manager provided an update on the budget, specifically discussing the allocation of funds from the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA). The meeting concluded with the board agreeing to table further discussions until the next meeting.
</details><details><summary>Please, summarize any discussion about the consent agenda from the select board meeting.</summary>

> The consent agenda for the select board meeting included approval of minutes from two previous meetings, requests for special one-day beer and wine licenses for various events, and a request for a common vigilor license for a new restaurant. The board discussed the events and locations for the special licenses, including a retirement party, a beach concert series, and a private event. They also discussed the new restaurant, Turmeric House, and its plans for operation. The board unanimously approved the consent agenda.
</details><details><summary>Who spoke about the Reservoir Beach for Reservoir Dogs request at the select board meeting?  What concerns were raised?</summary>

> The select board member, Mr. Diggins, spoke about the Reservoir Beach for Reservoir Dogs request. He did not raise any specific concerns but made a comment about the event being interesting and asked if there was another beer garden event happening at the Jason Russell House on the same day.
</details><details><summary>Who spoke about the Middle Eastern Dance Show by Seyyide event at Whittemore Park at the select board meeting?  What concerns were raised?</summary>

> The Middle Eastern Dance Show by Seyyide event at Whittemore Park was discussed by Talia Fox, the sustainability manager for the town. She mentioned that the organizer, Claudia Dunnett, could not be present at the meeting due to a work conflict. Fox suggested that the board could either approve the event or move a conditional approval based on any questions they might have. There were no specific concerns raised about the event during the discussion.
</details><details><summary>Who spoke against and in-favor of the City Wine and Spirits liquor license?  What was the name of the lawyer involved? Where any concerns raised?  Summarize the discussion about the new liquor license.</summary>

> The lawyer representing the applicant for the City Wine and Spirits liquor license was Andrew Upton. There were several concerns raised during the discussion, primarily related to parking and traffic issues, as well as the proximity of the store to other similar businesses. Some residents also expressed concerns about the potential for increased alcohol-related issues in the area. However, there were also several people who spoke in favor of the new liquor license, citing the need for a boutique wine store in the area and the potential for the store to attract a higher-end clientele. The discussion also touched on the store's proposed security measures and commitment to not selling certain lower-end products.
</details><details><summary>Summarize the discussion about the Electric Bus and Vehicle Charging Stations.  How much will the charging stations cost, how much will it reduce Arlington's carbon footprint?  How much electricity will the buses use per day?</summary>

> The discussion about the Electric Bus and Vehicle Charging Stations focused on the installation of two new charging stations at Otteson Middle School. The stations will be used to charge two electric school buses and two level two chargers for school personnel use during the day and public use outside of school hours. The cost of the charging stations was not mentioned in the discussion. The electric buses are part of Arlington's net zero action plan, which aims to reduce the town's greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. However, the specific reduction in Arlington's carbon footprint due to these buses was not discussed. The amount of electricity the buses will use per day was also not mentioned. The charging time for the buses is estimated to be between two to four hours.
</details><details><summary>Summarize the Bluebikes Station Expansion effort.  Did any select board members raise any concerns?</summary>

> The Bluebikes Station Expansion effort was presented by John Alessi, Senior Transportation Planner in the Department of Planning and Community Development. He proposed the installation of two new Blue Bike Stations in Arlington, one on Mill Street at the Minuteman Bikeway Crossing and the other at Arlington High School on Mass Ave. These locations were chosen based on a resident survey.Select board member Mr. Diggins suggested the possibility of adding bike racks at the CVS station instead of a compact parking space. Mr. DeCorsi expressed support for the Blue Bike Station on Mill Street but suggested that a better spot might be along the bikeway, although he acknowledged that dealing with the MBTA for the right-of-way could be challenging. He proposed working with Attorney Heim and Mr. Diggins to negotiate with the MBTA. Mr. DeCorsi also raised concerns about potential icy conditions in the parking lot during winter.The board ultimately approved the Bluebikes Station Expansion with the conditions of no candy, no lottery sales, no kegs, and no malt liquor.
</details><details><summary>How is the federal ARPA funds being budgeted?  Were any concerns raised from select board members</summary>

> The federal ARPA funds have been budgeted across various categories including revenue loss, public health, equity and inclusion, behavioral health support, small business assistance, tenant assistance, food security, HVAC improvements, parks and open spaces, water and sewer, affordable housing, homelessness, remote meeting infrastructure, and administration and oversight.Some concerns raised by select board members included ensuring that the funds are being spent within the allowed categories to avoid potential issues in future audits. There was also a concern about ensuring that any positions or programs funded by ARPA are properly notified if the funding is not continuing in the future. Additionally, there was a discussion about potentially reallocating funds from categories where the full budgeted amount has not been spent to areas where they might be more needed.
</details><details><summary>What are the Temporary Revisions to Parking Policy and Regulations to Incorporate Overnight Parking Pilot?</summary>

> The Temporary Revisions to Parking Policy and Regulations to Incorporate Overnight Parking Pilot are changes made to the existing parking rules in order to accommodate a pilot program for overnight parking. These revisions may include designating specific areas for overnight parking, setting time restrictions, and outlining any necessary permits or fees. The goal of the pilot program is to test the feasibility and impact of allowing overnight parking in certain areas. The revisions are temporary and will be reviewed and adjusted based on the results of the pilot program.
</details><details><summary>What did the select board members say about the Special Town Meeting?  On what date is the Special Town meeting to be held?</summary>

> The select board members discussed the potential dates for the Special Town Meeting but did not finalize a date during the meeting. They decided to table the decision to a later date.
</details><details><summary>Which select board members were appointed as designess as the override campaign committee co-chairs?  Why were they selected?</summary>

> Select board chair Eric Helmuth was appointed as the select board's designee to the override campaign committee co-chairs. He was selected due to his position as chair of the select board and his experience in town governance. The decision was made by a vote of the select board members.
</details><details><summary>Was there any discussion about correspondence received; specifically about signage and safety concerns around schools?</summary>

> Yes, there was discussion about correspondence received regarding signage and safety concerns around schools. The correspondence included a request for additional signage from Katie Tremblay for Oxford Street and Winter Street due to safety concerns raised by residents in that neighborhood. There was also a stop sign request for Regis Road at Everett Street from the Arlington School Committee. The board noted that while they anticipated these matters may be referred to the Traffic Advisory Committee (TAC), there was also a short-term examination being conducted by town employees to see if there were any immediate solutions that could be implemented.
</details><details><summary>Who spoke during the Open Forum and what were their concerns?</summary>

> No one spoke during the Open Forum.
</details><details><summary>What were the board and staff announcements?</summary>

> The board and staff announcements are typically updates or information shared by the board members and staff at the beginning of a meeting. These can include updates on ongoing projects, upcoming events, changes in policy, or other relevant news. The specific content of these announcements can vary greatly depending on the context of the meeting and the roles of the individuals making the announcements.
</details><details><summary>What announcements were made by the board and/or staff?</summary>

> The board announced the approval of a common victualler license for Turmeric House, a new Indian and Nepali cuisine restaurant. They also approved a Middle Eastern dance show at Whittemore Park and discussed the allocation of funds from the American Rescue Plan Act. The board also appointed an acting town manager for the period of July 29th through July 31st, and appointed the current chair of the select board as the select board's co-chair for the override campaign committee.
</details>