### Arlington Select Board 2023-09-11  [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JUZNwdQXy3c) [agenda](https://arlington.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/MeetingView.aspx?MeetingID=1851&MinutesMeetingID=-1&doctype=Agenda)
#### Mon Sep 11, 2023

<details><summary>Please, summarize the Select Board meeting.</summary>

> The Arlington Select Board meeting on September 11th began with a moment of silence to remember the victims of the 9/11 attacks. The meeting was conducted in a hybrid format due to COVID-19 measures. The first item of business was the confirmation of Julie Wayman as the town's next treasurer and collector, presented by Town Manager Jim Feeney. Wayman has served the town since 2016 and was praised for her diligence and knowledge of the town's finances. The board also discussed the Arlington Select Board's opposition to the Mugar development project, with a suggestion to reaffirm their stance after the September 21st meeting. The board also discussed a home rule petition for income-based local property tax relief for senior citizens. The board was asked to approve the wording for the ballot question, with some members preferring a more detailed explanation of the relief measure.
</details><details><summary>Summarize the discussion concerning the Treasurer appointment.  Who was appoiinted and what is their background?</summary>

> The Arlington Select Board unanimously confirmed the appointment of Julie Wayman as the town's next treasurer and collector. Julie Wayman has served the town since 2016 and has been working in the Town Manager's Office since 2019. She is described as one of the most diligent and hardworking employees in the organization and an extremely valuable member of the finance team. She has a deep understanding of the town and its finances.
</details><details><summary>Summarize the discussion about items in the consent agenda.</summary>

> The consent agenda included a variety of items such as approval of minutes, reappointments to committees, and requests for special one-day beer and wine licenses. The board approved the consent agenda unanimously. There was also a discussion about the need for a public hearing for a change of manager at a local restaurant. The board agreed to schedule the public hearing for a future meeting. Additionally, there was a discussion about the need for a public hearing for a change of manager at a local restaurant. The board agreed to schedule the public hearing for a future meeting.
</details><details><summary>What is the National Coffee with a Copy Day?</summary>

> National Coffee with a Cop Day is an event where local police departments invite the public to join them for coffee and conversation. The aim is to build relationships and foster trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. It is typically held on the first Wednesday of October.
</details><details><summary>Summarize the discussion about the Oldham Road betterment.</summary>

> The discussion about the Oldham Road betterment involved various stakeholders including residents of Oldham Road, town officials, and board members. The residents of Oldham Road are divided on the issue of repaving their street. Some residents, like Lanie Cantor and Richard Kurtz, are in favor of the project, citing safety concerns due to deep potholes and broken pavement. They argue that the road is in a state of disrepair and poses a risk to vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists. 

However, other residents like Paul Hauser and a resident from 22 Oldham Road are opposed to the project. They argue that the current state of the road acts as a natural deterrent to speeding and that the cost of repaving is unnecessary. They also raised concerns about the lack of communication and transparency in the process.

The town manager informed the board that the town's private way betterment account would not be sufficient to support the project immediately. He suggested that more funds would need to be collected upfront from the residents, possibly around 75 to 80 percent of the project cost, for the project to proceed. Otherwise, the project would likely be delayed until the next construction season. 

Board member John Hurd proposed tabling the discussion to allow residents to gather more information and discuss the project further. His motion was seconded by board member Stephen DeCorsi.
</details><details><summary>List who spoke about the Oldham Road betterment, summarize what they had to say.</summary>

> 1. Mrs. Mahan: Initiated the motion for the Oldham Road betterment.
2. Mr. Hurd: Seconded the motion for approval.
3. Lanie Cantor: The proponent of the project, she spoke about the poor condition of the road, including deep potholes and broken pavement, which have caused damage to vehicles and even caused a woman to trip. She expressed concern for the safety of cyclists, especially children, and stated that most neighbors are willing to spend money to make the road safer. She also addressed concerns about increased traffic and speeding if the road is well-paved, arguing that these are non-issues based on past experience.
4. Paul Hauser: Opposed the project, stating that there had been no meetings or discussions about different options. He felt that the street in front of his house did not need paving and that the project was a waste of money. He also expressed concerns about lack of transparency and communication, and disagreed with the safety concerns raised by Cantor.
5. Dan Schein: In favor of the project, he expressed embarrassment about the state of the road and concern about potential future work that might require the street to be dug up again. He also mentioned that everyone on Oldham Road uses Lantan Lane instead, turning it into a speedway.
6. Resident at 22 Oldham Road: Opposed the project, expressing concerns about the road becoming a "highway" if it's well-paved. He offered to help neighbors fill in potholes and asked for a delay in the project to make it more affordable.
7. Richard Kurtz: In favor of the project, he described the road as being in a very bad state of repair, with deep potholes that have caused damage to vehicles. He mentioned attempts to repair the road with asphalt and gravel, which were unsuccessful. He also expressed concern about the road not being safe for his daughter to ride her bike on.
</details><details><summary>Who was appointed to the Civilian Police Advisory Commission?  What are their backgrounds?  Why is the commission not doing anything?</summary>

> The two individuals appointed to the Arlington Civilian Police Advisory Commission are Sanjay Newton and Kathy Rogers. Sanjay Newton is currently the chair of the MBTA Communities Working Group and has been involved in various town committees. Kathy Rogers has also been involved in town committees and has a background in law. The commission is not doing anything currently because it is in its inaugural year and is in the process of setting up its framework and protocols. The first year is seen as a building opportunity to establish the foundation of the commission.
</details><details><summary>Summarize the Mugar update include a timeline of events concerning the Mugar development.</summary>

> The Mugar development, also known as the Thorndike Place development, has been a contentious issue in Arlington for several years. The proposed development includes a 124-unit, four-story building and six duplex townhouses located near Thorndike Field in East Arlington. The project has faced opposition due to its location on documented wetlands and potential impacts on flooding, traffic, services, and nearby open spaces. 

In February 2022, the applicant filed an appeal to the Housing Appeals Committee. The litigation has since ended and the next step is a hearing with the Conservation Commission. The first hearing on the notice of intent is scheduled for September 21st. 

In the past, the Select Board has voted against the project and there is a suggestion to reaffirm this vote after the September 21st meeting. There is also a suggestion for a site visit with the Town Manager and members of the Mugar Coalition. 

The Conservation Commission will begin the notice of intent process on September 21st. This process will scrutinize the notice of intent and start public hearings. The hearings will focus on the 5.6 acres where the 124 units and 12 duplex units are proposed. 

There is also a so-called conservation parcel, which is the remainder of the site, approximately 12 acres. This parcel is the subject of a potential Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the developers and the town. The town's position is that the parcel needs to be cleaned up before it is received. 

The Select Board, while acknowledging its limited authority, has committed to monitoring the situation closely and ensuring that the project complies with all conditions.
</details><details><summary>Please, list who spoke during the Open Forum and summarize their comments.</summary>

> During the Open Forum, several individuals spoke:

1. John Uroich, a resident of the town for 56 years, expressed his concerns about the proposed Muir Guard development. He emphasized the potential environmental impact of building on a swamp and the potential precedent it could set for other green areas in the town. He also requested that the use of aggregate pilings be included in the conditions for the project.

2. Clarissa Rowe, a resident of 137 Herbert Road, expressed her gratitude for the board's desire to vote after September 21st. She also requested that Lisa Friedman read a statement from the Coalition to Save the Mugar Wetlands.

3. Lisa Friedman, a resident of 63 Mott Street, read a statement from the Coalition to Save the Mugar Wetlands. The statement emphasized the environmental impact of the proposed development, the potential exacerbation of flooding, and the negative impact on traffic, services, infrastructure, and nearby open spaces.

4. Charles D'Averglio, a resident who joined via Zoom, raised concerns about a parklet set up in front of a school at 301 Broadway. He questioned the benefit of the parklet, noting that it was infrequently used and resulted in lost revenue for the town.

5. Elaine Light, a resident of 53 Dorothy, shared her personal experience with flooding issues in her home. She expressed concern that the proposed development would exacerbate these issues.

6. Jennifer Griffith, a resident of 4 Edith Street, thanked the board for their work and expressed her concerns about the proposed development. She also raised concerns about the potential impact on the neighborhood and the town.

7. A resident of the town, who did not provide her name, thanked the board and other town committees for their work. She also expressed her concerns about the proposed development and its potential impact on the neighborhood and the town.
</details><details><summary>Summarize the discussion about parking on West Street and the stop sign at Regis Road. What votes were taken?</summary>

> The board discussed concerns about parking on West Street but decided to table the discussion for a future meeting. Regarding the stop sign at Regis Road, the board discussed two versions of a ballot question to put the senior circuit breaker on the ballot for November. The board approved both versions of the ballot question, with the understanding that the preferred version would be used if confirmed by the state. The board also discussed the placement of a stop sign at Regis Road and Everett Street, which was approved and installed prior to the start of the new school year.
</details><details><summary>What was the discussion on the circuit breaker ballot question?  Which version and what language will be used for the ballot question?</summary>

> The discussion on the circuit breaker ballot question revolved around two versions of the question that could be put on the ballot. The first version was shorter and more conservative, simply asking if the town should adopt the special act. The second version was longer and provided more context, explaining that the act would provide income-based local property tax relief for eligible residents over 65 years of age, with the relief amount set annually by the select board. The board members expressed a preference for the second version, as it provided more information to voters about the benefits to seniors. However, they also acknowledged that there might be time constraints and legal restrictions that could prevent the use of the longer version. Therefore, they approved both versions, with the understanding that the town attorney would seek confirmation from the state on which version could be used.
</details><details><summary>What are the traffic concerns at Elmhurst road and Brooks Ave?</summary>

> The traffic concerns at Elmhurst Road and Brooks Avenue are not specified in the provided context. However, it is mentioned that the issue has been referred to the Transportation Advisory Committee for further discussion and potential solutions. The concerns could potentially relate to issues such as speeding, congestion, pedestrian safety, or parking.
</details><details><summary>What announcements were made by board members?List all votes and indicate how each member voted during the select board meeting.</summary>

> The text provided does not include specific announcements made by board members or details on how each member voted during the select board meeting.
</details><details><summary>What announcements were made by board members?</summary>

> The board members made several announcements during the meeting. They announced that the meeting was being conducted in a hybrid format, with some members present in the Select Board Chambers and others participating over Zoom. They also announced that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast on ACMI. They provided information on how to join the meeting via Zoom and reminded participants to provide their full names for the record. They announced that there would be public comment periods during the meeting. They also announced the first item of business, which was a vote for Select Board confirmation of a treasurer appointment. Later in the meeting, they announced the start of the open forum.
</details><details><summary>List all votes and indicate how each member voted during the select board meeting.</summary>

> The text provided does not include specific votes or how each member voted during the select board meeting.
</details>